NPR 7150.2C NASA Software Engineering Requirements

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
|  | NASA Procedures and Guidelines |
| **This Document is Obsolete and Is No Longer Used.**  Check the NODIS Library to access the current version:  http://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov | |

---

#### NPR 7150.2C Effective Date: August 02, 2019 Cancellation Date: August 20, 2020 Responsible Office: KA

## NASA Software Engineering Requirements

  

# Table of Contents

## Preface

P.1 Purpose  
P.2 Applicability  
P.3 Authority  
P.4 Applicable Documents and Forms  
P.5 Measurement/Verification  
P.6 Cancellation

## Chapter 1. Introduction

1.1 Overview  
1.2 Hierarchy of NASA Software-Related Engineering and Program/Project Documents  
1.3 Document Structure

## Chapter 2. Roles, Responsibilities, and Principles Related to Tailoring of the Requirements

2.1 Roles and Responsibilities   
2.2 Principles Related to Tailoring of the Requirements

## Chapter 3. Software Management Requirements

3.1 Software Life Cycle Planning  
3.2 Software Cost Estimation  
3.3 Software Schedules  
3.4 Software Training  
3.5 Software Classification Assessments  
3.6 Software Assurance and Software Independent Verification & Validation  
3.7 Safety-critical Software  
3.8 Automatic Generation of Software Source Code  
3.9 Software Development Processes and Practices   
3.10 Software Reuse   
3.11 Software Cybersecurity  
3.12 Software Bi-Directional Traceability

## Chapter 4. Software Engineering (Life-Cycle) Requirements

4.1 Software Requirements  
4.2 Software Architecture  
4.3 Software Design  
4.4 Software Implementation  
4.5 Software Testing  
4.6 Software Operations, Maintenance, and Retirement

## Chapter 5. Supporting Software Life-Cycle Requirements

5.1 Software Configuration Management  
5.2 Software Risk Management  
5.3 Software Peer Reviews/Inspections  
5.4 Software Measurements  
5.5 Software Non-conformance or Defect Management

## Chapter 6. Recommended Software Documentation Contents

### Appendix A. Definitions Appendix B. Acronyms Appendix C. Requirements Mapping Matrix Appendix D. Software Classifications Appendix E. References

## List of Figures

Figure 1. NASA Software Classification Structure

## List of Tables

Table 1. Bi-directional traceability by software classification  
Table 2. Requirements Mapping Matrix

  

# Preface

## P.1 Purpose

Software engineering is a core capability and key enabling technology for NASA's missions and supporting infrastructure. This directive establishes the engineering requirements for software acquisition, development, maintenance, retirement, operations, and management consistent with the governance model contained in NASA Policy Directive (NPD) 1000.0. This NASA Procedural Requirements (NPR) supports the implementation of NPD 7120.4.

## P.2 Applicability

a. This directive applies to NASA Headquarters and NASA Centers, including Component Facilities and Technical and Service Support Centers. This language applies to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) (a Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC)), other contractors, grant recipients, or parties to agreements only to the extent specified or referenced in the appropriate contracts, grants, or agreements.

*Note: The above statement alone is not sufficient to stipulate requirements for the contractor, grant recipient, or agreement. This directive provides requirements for NASA contracts, grant recipients, or agreements to the responsible NASA project managers and contracting officers that are made mandatory through contract clauses, specifications, or statements of work (SOWs) in conformance with the NASA Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Supplement or by stipulating in the contracts, grants, or agreements which of the NPR requirements apply.*

b. This directive applies to the complete software development life cycle, including software planning, development, testing, maintenance, retirement, operations, management, acquisition, and assurance activities. The requirements of this directive cover such software created, acquired, or maintained by NASA or for NASA to the extent specified or referenced in an appropriate contract, grant, or agreement. The applicability of these requirements to specific systems and subsystems within the Agency's investment areas, programs, and projects is through the use of the NASA-wide definition of software classes, defined in Appendix D. Some projects may contain multiple software systems and software subsystems having different software classes.

Figure 1. NASA software classification structure.

c. For existing Class A through E programs and projects, the software engineering requirements of this NPR apply to their current and future phases as determined by the responsible Mission Directorate as approved by the NASA Chief Engineer (or as delegated).

d. For existing Class F programs and projects, the software engineering requirements of this NPR apply to their current and future phases as determined by the Center CIO and approved by the NASA Chief Information Officer (or delegate).

e. This NPR can be applied to other NASA investments at the discretion of the responsible manager or the NASA Associate Administrator. This directive is not retroactively applicable to software development, maintenance, operations, management, acquisition, and assurance activities started before September 27, 2004 (i.e., existing systems and subsystems containing software for the International Space Station, Hubble, Chandra, etc.).

f. This directive does not supersede more stringent requirements imposed by individual NASA organizations and other Federal Government agencies or by Federal law.

g. In this directive, all mandatory actions (i.e., requirements) are denoted by statements containing the term "shall," followed by a software engineering (SWE) requirement number. The terms "may" or "can" denote discretionary privilege or permission, "should" denotes a good practice and is recommended but not required, "will" denotes expected outcome, and "are/is" denotes descriptive material.

h. In this directive, all document citations are assumed to be the latest version unless otherwise noted.

## P.3 Authority

a. The National Aeronautics and Space Act, as amended, 51 U.S.C. § 20113(a).

b. NPD 1000.0, NASA Governance and Strategic Management Handbook.

c. NPD 1000.3, The NASA Organization.

d. NPD 1000.5, Policy for NASA Acquisition.

e. NPD 7120.4, NASA Engineering and Program/Project Management Policy.

## P.4 Applicable Documents and Forms

a. NPD 1000.0, NASA Governance and Strategic Management Handbook.

b. NPD 1000.3, The NASA Organization.

c. NPD 1200.1, NASA Internal Control.

d. NPD 1210.2, NASA Surveys, Audits, and Reviews Policy.

e. NPD 1600.2, NASA Security Policy.

f. NPR 1600.1, NASA Security Program Procedural Requirements.

g. NPD 2091.1, Inventions Made By Government Employees.

h. NPR 2800.1, Managing Information Technology.
i. NPR 2810.1, Managing Security of Information Technology.

j. NPR 7120.5, NASA Space Flight Program and Project Management Requirements.

k. NPR 7120.7, NASA Information Technology and Institutional Infrastructure Program and Project Management Requirements.

l. NPR 7120.8, NASA Research and Technology Program and Project Management Requirements.

m. NPR 7123.1, NASA Systems Engineering Processes and Requirements.

n. NPR 8000.4, Agency Risk Management Procedural Requirements.

o. NPR 8705.2, Human-Rating Requirements for Space Systems.

p. NPR 8705.4, Risk Classification for NASA Payloads.

q. NPR 8715.3, NASA General Safety Program Requirements.

r. NPR 8735.2, Management of Government Quality Assurance Functions for NASA Contracts.

s. NASA-STD-3000, Volumes I-II, Man-Systems Integration Standards.

t. NASA-STD-7009, Standard for Models and Simulations.

u. NASA-STD-8739.8, Software Assurance Standard.

v. NASA-STD-8739.9 Software Formal Inspection Standard.

w. NASA-HDBK-2203, NASA Software Engineering Handbook.

x. NASA-HDBK-4008, Programmable Logic Devices (PLD) Handbook.

y. NASA-HDBK-7009, NASA Handbook for models and simulations: an implementation guide for NASA-STD-7009.

z. DO-178B, Software Considerations in Airborne Systems and Equipment Certification.

aa. IEEE 828-2012, IEEE Standard for Configuration Management in Systems and Software Engineering,

bb. IEEE 1012, IEEE Standard for Software Verification and Validation.

cc. IEEE 1028, IEEE Standard for Software Reviews and Audits.

dd. ISO/IEC 2382-20, Information technology--Vocabulary--Part 20: System development, 20.05.05.

ee. ISO/IEC 19770-5:2015, Information technology.

ff. ISO/IEC 19770-1:2017, Information technology - IT asset management - Part 1: IT asset management systems--Requirements.

gg. ISO/IEC 26514:2008, Systems and software engineering--requirements for designers and developers of user documentation.

hh. ISO/IEC/IEEE 24765, Systems and software engineering - Vocabulary.

ii. ISO/IEC/IEEE 26513:2017, Systems and software engineering--requirements for testers and reviewers of information for users.

## P.5 Measurement/Verification

Implementation of this directive is defined as implementing all the identified processes, activities, and requirements in accordance with the software classification and approved software tailoring. Compliance with this document is verified by submission of the completed Requirements Mapping Matrix(ces) to responsible NASA officials, including any approved tailoring (see Appendix C) and by internal and external controls. Internal controls processes are defined in NPD 1200.1. Internal controls include surveys, audits, and reviews conducted in accordance with NPD 1210.2. External controls may include external surveys, audits, and reporting or contractual requirements.

## P.6 Cancellation

a. NPR 7150.2B, NASA Software Engineering Requirements, dated November 19, 2014.

b. NASA Interim Directive 7150-113: NASA Interim Directive for Software License Management, dated June 13, 2017.

  

# Chapter 1: Introduction

## 1.1 Overview

1.1.1 This directive imposes requirements on procedures, design considerations, activities, and tasks used to acquire, develop, maintain, operate, retire, and manage applicable software. This directive is a designed set of requirements for protecting the Agency's investment in software engineering products and fulfilling our responsibility to the citizens of the United States.

1.1.2 The requirements in this directive have been extracted from industry standards and proven NASA experience in software engineering. Centers and software developers can show that many of the requirements are satisfied through existing programs, procedures, and processes.

1.1.3. The Agency makes significant investments in software engineering to support the Agency’s investment areas: Space Flight, Aeronautics, Research and Technology, Information Technology (IT), and Institutional Infrastructure. NASA ensures that programs, projects, systems, and subsystems that use software follow a standard set of requirements. One of the goals of this directive is to bring the Agency's engineering and software development and management communities together to optimize resources and talents across Center boundaries. For engineers to effectively communicate and work seamlessly across Centers, a common framework of generic requirements is needed. This directive fulfills this need for the Agency within the discipline of software engineering.

1.1.4 This directive does not require a specific software life cycle model. Where this NPR refers to phases and milestone reviews in the software life-cycle, it uses the standard NASA life-cycle models described in NPR 7120.5, NPR 7120.7, and NPR 7120.8, as supported by milestone reviews described in NPR 7123.1.

1.1.5 NASA is committed to instituting and updating these requirements to meet the Agency's current and future challenges in software engineering. Successful experiences are codified in updated versions of this directive after experience has been gained through its use within the NASA software community, the collection of lessons learned from projects, and the implementation records of the Engineering Technical Authorities.

## 1.2 Hierarchy of NASA Software-Related Engineering and Program/Project Documents

1.2.1 Agency-Level Software Policies and Requirements

NPD 7120.4 is an overarching document that establishes top-level policies for all software created, acquired, and maintained by or for NASA, including Commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) software, Government-off-the-shelf (GOTS) software, and Modified-off-the-shelf (MOTS) software and open-source software, embedded software, reused software, legacy software, and heritage software. This directive supports the implementation of NPD 7120.4. NPR 7150.2 establishes the set of software engineering requirements established by the Agency for software acquisition, development, maintenance, retirement, operations, and management. It provides a set of software engineering requirements in generic terms for use throughout NASA and its contractor community. Additional Agency-level project management requirements and systems engineering requirements exist that influence and affect the software development activities on a project. In the event of a conflict between an NPD and an NPR, the information provided in the NPD takes precedence.

1.2.2 Agency-Level Multi-Center and Product Line Requirements (non-software specific)

These NPDs and NPRs elaborate, tailor, and in some cases add requirements to those above to address the needs of major multi-Center projects, specific product lines, and specific focus areas. Examples of representative NPRs in this category are NPR 8705.2, NPR 8715.3, NPR 8735.2, NPR 7120.5, NPR7123.1, NPD 2800.1, NPR 2800.1, and NPR 2810.1.

1.2.3 Center-Level Directives (related to software)

Center-level directives are developed by NASA Centers to document their local software policies, requirements, and procedures. These directives are responsive to the higher-level requirements while addressing the specific application areas and the Center's mission within the Agency. In the event of a conflict between this NPR with a Center-level directive, the information provided in the NPR takes precedence.

## 1.3 Document Structure

a. Chapter 2 describes the roles, responsibilities, and institutional requirements relevant to the requirements in this directive. This chapter describes the responsibilities for maintaining and advancing organizational capability in software engineering practices to effectively meet the scientific and technological objectives of the Agency. It defines the roles and responsibilities of key officials in software engineering management, the software development and management processes, and the software life-cycle management processes. Specific software classification applicability, if any, for the requirements in Chapter 2 are contained in the requirement wording. The requirements in Chapter 2 are not part of the Requirements Mapping Matrix in Appendix C. Approval of any tailoring of requirements designated in Chapter 2 can be done by the appropriate organization per the defined roles and responsibilities.

b. Chapter 3 establishes software management requirements. The software management activities define and control the many software aspects of a project from beginning to end. The software management activities include the required interfaces to other organizations, determination of deliverables, cost estimates, tracking of schedules, risk management, formal and informal reviews as well as other forms of verification and validation, and determination of the amount of supporting services. The planned management of these activities is captured in one or more software or system plans.

c. Chapter 4 provides the software engineering life-cycle requirements. This directive makes no recommendation for a specific software life-cycle model. Each has its strengths and weaknesses, and no one model is best for every situation. Whether using the agile methods, spiral model, the iterative model, waterfall, or any other development life-cycle model, each has its own set of requirements, design, implementation, testing, release to operations, maintenance, and retirement. Although this directive does not impose a particular life-cycle model on each software project, it does support a standard set of life-cycle phases. Use of the different phases of a life-cycle allows the various products of a project to be gradually developed and matured from initial concepts through the fielding of the product and to its final retirement.

d. Chapter 5 provides supporting software life-cycle requirements. Unlike development processes, support processes are not targeted primarily at a specific phase of the project life cycle but typically occur with similar intensity throughout the complete project or product life cycle. For example, normal configuration management baselines (e.g., requirements, code, and products) happen across the life cycle, as does cybersecurity. Support processes are software management and engineering processes that support the entire software life cycle: Software Configuration Management, Risk Management, Peer Reviews, Inspections, Software Measurement, and Non-conformance and Defect Management.

e. Chapter 6 provides a list of the recommended software records.

f. Appendix A provides definitions.

g. Appendix B provides acronyms used in this directive.

h. Appendix C contains the Requirements Mapping Matrix.

i. Appendix D contains software classifications.

j. Appendix E contains software references for this directive.

  

# Chapter 2. Roles, Responsibilities, and Principles Related to Tailoring of the Requirements

## 2.1 Roles and Responsibilities Associated with this Directive

2.1.1 The NASA Office of the Chief Engineer (OCE)

2.1.1.1 The NASA OCE shall lead and maintain a NASA Software Engineering Initiative to advance software engineering practices. [SWE-002]

2.1.1.2 The NASA OCE shall periodically benchmark each Center's software engineering capability against requirements in this directive. [SWE-004]

*Note: Capability Maturity Model® Integration (CMMI®) for Development (CMMI-DEV) appraisals are the preferred benchmarks for objectively measuring progress toward software engineering process improvement at NASA Centers.*

2.1.1.3 The NASA OCE shall periodically review the project requirements mapping matrices. [SWE-152]

2.1.1.4 The NASA OCE shall authorize appraisals against selected requirements in this NPR to check compliance. [SWE-129]

2.1.1.5 The NASA OCE and Center training organizations shall provide training to advance software engineering practices. [SWE-100]

2.1.1.6 The NASA OCE shall maintain an Agency-wide process asset library of applicable best practices. [SWE-098]

2.1.2 Chief, Safety and Mission Assurance (SMA)

2.1.2.1 The Chief, SMA manages Agency software assurance policy and oversees its implementation, and is the Technical Authority for any requirements which may impact safety.

2.1.2.2 The NASA Chief, SMA will lead and maintain a NASA Software Assurance Initiative to advance software assurance practices.

2.1.2.3 The NASA Chief, SMA will periodically benchmark each Center's software assurance capabilities against the NASA Software Assurance Standard.

2.1.2.4 The NASA Chief, SMA will periodically review the project’s requirements mapping matrices.

2.1.2.5 The NASA Chief, SMA will authorize appraisals against selected requirements in this NPR to check compliance.

2.1.2.6 The NASA Chief, SMA will provide for software assurance training.

2.1.2.7 The NASA Chief, SMA will make the final decision on all proposed tailoring of SWE-141, the Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) requirement.

2.1.2.8 The NASA Chief, SMA provides policy direction, functional oversight, and assessment for all Agency safety, reliability, maintainability, and quality engineering and assurance activities.

2.1.3 Chief, Office of Chief Information Officer (OCIO)

2.1.3.1 The NASA OCIO Senior Agency Information Security Officer (SAISO) (or designee) will conduct security assessments and appraisals on selected requirements in this NPR to check compliance.

2.1.3.2 The NASA OCIO SAISO (or designee) will participate in any software development reviews, as needed.

2.1.4 Chief Health and Medical Officer (CHMO)

2.1.4.1 The CHMO is the Technical Authority for any requirements which impacts health and medical.

2.1.4.2 The CHMO has approval authority of tailoring of software with health and medical implications. This approval may be delegated to the CHMO designated Center HMTA.

2.1.5 Center Director

2.1.5.1 In this directive, the phrase "the Center Directors shall..." means that the roles and responsibilities of the Center Directors may be further delegated within the organization consistent with the scope and scale of the system.

2.1.5.2 Center Director, or designee, shall maintain, staff, and implement a plan to continually advance the Center’s in-house software engineering capability and monitor the software engineering capability of NASA's contractors. [SWE-003]

*Note: The recommended practices and guidelines for the content of a Center Software Engineering Improvement Plan are defined in NASA-HDBK-2203. Each Center has a current Center Software Engineering Improvement Plan on file in the NASA Chief Engineer’s office.*

2.1.5.3 Center Director, or designee, shall establish, document, execute, and maintain software processes per the requirements in this directive. [SWE-005]

2.1.5.4 Center Director, or designee, shall comply with the requirements in this directive that are marked with an ”X” in Appendix C. [SWE-140]

*Note: The responsibilities for approving changes in the requirements for a project is listed for each requirement in the requirement mapping matrix. When the requirement and software class are marked with an “X,” the projects will record the risk and rationale for any requirement that is not completely implemented by the project. The projects can document their related mitigations and risk acceptance in the approved Requirements Mapping Matrix. Project relief from the applicable cybersecurity requirements, section 3.11, Software Cybersecurity, has to include an agreement from the Center CIO or designee. The NASA Agency CIO, or Center CIO designee, has institutional authority on all Class F software projects.*

2.1.5.5 The designated Center Engineering Technical Authority(s) or Institutional Authority(s) for requirements in this NPR shall be NASA civil servants (or JPL/Contractor employees). [SWE-122]

*Note: Refer to Appendix C (column titled “Authority”) for requirements and their associated Technical or Institutional Authority. NASA Headquarters will designate the technical authority for SWE-032 and SWE-141.*

2.1.5.6 Serving as technical and institutional authorities for requirements in this directive, Center Director, or designee, shall: [SWE-126]

a. Assess projects’ requirements mapping matrices and tailoring from requirements in this directive by:

(1) Checking the accuracy of the project’s classification of software components against the definitions in Appendix D.

(2) Evaluating the project’s Requirements Mapping Matrix for commitments to meet applicable requirements in this directive, consistent with software classification.

(3) Confirming that requirements marked “Not-Applicable” in the project’s Requirements Mapping Matrix are not relevant or not capable of being applied.

(4) Determining whether the project’s risks, mitigations, and related requests for relief from requirements designated with “X” in Appendix C are reasonable and acceptable.

(5) Approving/disapproving requests for relief from requirements designated with “X” in Appendix C, which falls under this Authority’s scope of responsibility.

(6) Facilitating the processing of projects’ requirements mapping matrices and tailoring decisions from requirements in this directive, which falls under the responsibilities of a different Authority (see column titled “Authority” in Appendix C).

(7) Include the Center CIO and CISO (or delegate) in all software reviews to ensure software cybersecurity is included throughout software development, testing, maintenance, retirement, operations, management, acquisition and assurance activities.

(8) Ensuring that approved requirements mapping matrices, including any tailoring rationale against this directive, are archived as part of retrievable project records.

*Note: To effectively assess projects’ requirements mapping matrices, the designated Center Engineering Technical and Institutional Authorities for this NPR are recognized NASA software engineering experts or utilize recognized NASA software engineering experts in their decision processes. NASA-HDBK-2203 contains valuable information on each requirement, links to relevant NASA Lessons Learned, and guidance on tailoring. Center organizations or branches may also share frequently used tailoring and related common processes.*

b. Indicate the Technical Authority or Technical Authorities approval by signature(s) in the Requirements Mapping Matrix itself, when the Requirements Mapping Matrix is used to tailor from the applicable “X” requirement(s).

*Note: The Requirements Mapping Matrix documents the requirements that the project plans to meet, “not applicable” requirements, and any tailoring approved by designated Authorities with associated justification. If a project wants to tailor a requirement marked as Headquarters Technical Authority, then the project is required to get NASA Headquarters approval (e.g., OCE, OSMA, OCIO, or OCHMO) on a tailored request or a software Requirements Mapping Matrix.*

2.1.5.7 The Center Director, or designee, shall report on the status of the Center’s software engineering discipline, as applied to its projects, upon request by the OCE or OSMA. [SWE-095]

2.1.5.8 Center Director, or designee, shall maintain a reliable list of their Center’s programs and projects containing Class A, B, C, and D software. The list should include: [SWE-006]

a. Project/program name and Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) number.

b. Software name(s) and WBS number(s).

c. Software size estimate (report in Kilo/Thousand Source Lines of Code (KSLOCs)).

d. The phase of development or operations.

e. Software Class or list of the software classes being used on the project.

f. Software safety-critical status.

g. For each Computer Software Configuration Item (CSCI)/Major System containing Class A, B, or C software, provide:

(1) The name of the software development organization.

(2) Title or brief description of the CSCI/Major System.

(3) The estimated total KSLOCs, the CSCI/Major System, represents.

(4) The primary programming languages used.

(5) The life-cycle methodology on the software project.

(6) Name of responsible software assurance organization(s).

2.1.5.9 For Class A, B, and C software projects, the Center Director, or designee, shall establish and maintain a software measurement repository for software project measurements containing at a minimum: [SWE-091]

a. Software development tracking data.

b. Software functionality achieved data.

c. Software quality data.

d. Software development effort and cost data.

2.1.5.10 For Class A, B, and C software projects, the Center Director, or designee, shall utilize software measurement data for monitoring software engineering capability, improving software quality, and to track the status of software engineering improvement activities. [SWE-092]

2.1.5.11 Center Director, or designee, will maintain and implement software training to advance its in-house software engineering capabilities. [SWE-101]

2.1.5.12 For Class A, B, and C software projects, each Center Director, or designee, shall establish and maintain software cost repository(ies) that contains at least the following measures: [SWE-142]

a. Planned and actual effort and cost.

b. Planned and actual schedule dates for major milestones.

c. Both planned and actual values for key cost parameters that typically include software size, requirements count, defects counts for maintenance or sustaining engineering projects, and cost model inputs.

d. Project descriptors or metadata that typically includes software class, software domain/type, and requirements volatility.

2.1.5.13 Each Center Director, or designee, shall contribute applicable software engineering process assets in use at his/her Centers to the Agency-wide process asset library. [SWE-144]

2.1.5.14 The designated Engineering Technical Authority(s) shall define the content requirements for software documents or records. [SWE-153].

*Note: The recommended practices and guidelines for the content of different types of software activities (whether stand-alone or condensed into one or more project level or software documents or electronic files) are defined in NASA-HDBK-2203. The Center defined content should address prescribed content, format, maintenance instructions, and submittal requirements for all software related records. The designated Technical Authority for software approves the required software content for projects within their scope of authority. Electronic submission of data deliverables is preferred. “Software records should be in accordance with NPR 7120.5, NPD 2810.1, NPR 2800.1 and NPR 2810.1.”*

2.1.5.15 The Center Director or designee shall ensure that the Government has clear rights in the software, a Government purpose license, or other appropriate license or permission from third party owners prior to providing the software for internal NASA software sharing or reuse. [SWE-215]

2.1.5.16 The Center Director or designee shall ensure that all software listed on the internal software sharing or reuse catalog(s) conforms to NASA software engineering policy and requirements. [SWE-216]

2.1.5.17 The Center Director or designee (e.g., the Civil Servant Technical Point of Contact for the software product) shall perform the following actions: [SWE-217]

a. Keep a list of all contributors to the software product.

b. Ensure that the software product contains appropriate disclaimer and indemnification provisions (e.g., in a “README” file) stating that the software may be subject to U.S. export control restrictions, and it is provided “as is” without any warranty, express or implied, and that the recipient waives any claims against, and indemnifies and holds harmless, NASA and its contractors and subcontractors.

2.1.5.18 The Center Director or designee (e.g., the Civil Servant Technical Point of Contact for the software product) shall perform the following actions for each type of internal NASA software transfer or reuse: [SWE-214]

a. A NASA civil servant to a NASA civil servant:

i. Verify the requesting NASA civil servant has executed an Acknowledgment (as set forth in the note following paragraph 3.10.2e).

ii. Provide the software to the requesting NASA civil servant.

b. A NASA civil servant to a NASA contractor:

i. Verify a NASA civil servant (e.g., a Contracting Officer (CO) or Contracting Officer Representative (COR)) has confirmed the NASA contractor requires such software for the performance of Government work under their NASA contract.

ii. Verify a NASA civil servant (e.g., a CO or COR) has confirmed an appropriate Government Furnished Software clause (e.g., 1852.227-88, “Government-furnished computer software and related technical data”) is in the subject contract (or, if not, that such clause is first added); or the contractor may also obtain access to the software in accordance with the external release requirements of NPR 2210.1.

iii. Verify NASA contractor is not a foreign person (as defined by 22 CFR §120.16).

iv. Verify there is a requesting NASA Civil servant (e.g., a CO or COR), and the requesting NASA civil servant has executed an Acknowledgment (as set forth in the note following paragraph 3.10.2e).

v. After items i., ii., iii., and iv. are complete, provide the software to the requesting NASA civil servant. The requesting NASA civil servant is responsible for furnishing the software to the contractor pursuant to the subject contract’s terms.

c. A NASA civil servant to a foreign person or foreign entity:

i. If foreign persons or entities need access to any software in the NASA Internal Sharing and Reuse Software Inventory, they must obtain such access to the software in accordance with the external release requirements of NPR 2210.1.

2.1.6 Center SMA

2.1.6.1 The Center SMA Director will assure the project completes thorough hazard analyses which include software.

*Note: The project manager is responsible for assuring Software Safety Hazard Analyses is performed on their project. The PM is responsible for the development of the project’s software hazard analyses and its independent review. Any differences in software safety's independent software safety critical determinations will be worked through the Engineering Technical Authority and the SMA Technical Authority.*

2.1.6.2 The Center SMA Director, will review the project’s IV&V provider’s IV&V Project Execution Plan (IPEP) to ensure it meets NASA IV&V criteria.

2.1.6.3 The Center SMA Director will support the project to ensure that acquired, developed, and maintained software, as required by SWE-032, is developed by an organization with a non-expired CMMI-DEV rating as measured by a CMMI Institute Certified Lead Appraiser.

2.1.6.4 The Center SMA Director will support the Center organizations in obtaining and maintaining the NASA organization’s CMMI-DEV ratings.
2.1.6.5 The Center SMA Director, or designee, will ensure that the project’s Requirements Mapping Matrix implementation approach does not impact SMA on the project.

2.1.6.6 The Center SMA Director will ensure that any disagreements between software engineering or the project office and software assurance are identified, reported, tracked, and if not resolved, elevated.

2.1.6.7 In this document, the phrase “the Center SMA Director will…” means that the roles and responsibilities of the Center SMA Directors may be further delegated within the organization consistent with the scope and scale of the system. The Center SMA Director designates SMA Technical Authorities for programs, facilities, and projects, providing direction, functional oversight, and assessment for all Agency safety, reliability, maintainability, and quality engineering and assurance activities, including Software Assurance.

2.1.6.8 The designated SMA Technical Authority(s) will review, ensure, and concur on SW products and processes throughout the project acquisition, development, delivery, operations, and maintenance.

## 2.2 Principles Related to Tailoring Requirements

2.2.1 Software requirements tailoring is the process used to seek relief from NPR requirements consistent with program or project objectives, acceptable risk, and constraints. To accommodate the wide variety of software systems and subsystems, application of these requirements to specific software development efforts may be tailored where justified and approved. To effectively maintain control over the application of requirements in this directive and to ensure proposed variants from specific requirements are appropriately mitigated, NASA established Technical Authority governance. Tailoring from requirements in this directive are governed by the following requirements, as well as those established in NPD 1000.3, NPR 2800.1, NPR 2810.1, NPR 7120.5, NPR 7120.7, NPR 7120.8, and NPR 8715.3 for all of the Agency’s investment areas. The Technical and Institutional Authority for each requirement in this NPR is documented in the "Authority" column of Appendix C. The OSMA has co-approval on any tailoring decided at the Headquarters level that involves software. The Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCHMO) has co-approval on any tailoring decided that involves software with health and medical implications. The Center CIO, or designee, has co-approval on any tailoring of the cybersecurity requirements in section 3.11. For tailoring involving human safety risk, the actual risk taker(s) (or official spokesperson[s] and appropriate supervisory chain) must formally agree to assume the risk. The responsible program, project, or operations manager must formally accept the risk. Tailoring decided at the Center level are to consult the Center Engineering Technical Authority, Center SMA Technical Authority, Center Health and Medical Technical Authority, and the NASA CIO’s Center IT Authority designee as defined in the requirements mapping matrix.

2.2.2 This directive establishes a baseline set of requirements to reduce software engineering risks on NASA projects and programs. Appendix C defines the default applicability of the requirements based on software classification. Each project has unique circumstances, and tailoring can be employed to modify the requirements set appropriate for the software engineering effort. Tailoring of requirements is based on key characteristics of the software engineering effort, including acceptable technical and programmatic risk posture, Agency priorities, size, and complexity. Requirements can be tailored more broadly across a group of similar projects, a program, an organization, or other collection of similar software development efforts in accordance with NPR 7120.5, Section 3.5.5.

2.2.3 In this directive, the phrase "the project manager shall..." means the roles and responsibilities of the project manager may be further delegated within the organization to the scope and scale of the system.

2.2.4 Requirements in this directive are invoked by software classifications as defined in Appendix C:

a. “X” – Indicates an invoked requirement by this directive consistent with software classification (ref. SWE-139).

b. Blank – Optional/Not invoked by this directive.

2.2.5 The approval of the Authority designated in Appendix C is required for all tailoring of requirements designated as “X.” The implementation approach used to meet each requirement is typically determined by the appropriate software engineering management in conjunction with the project.

*Note: The request for relief from a requirement includes the rationale, a risk evaluation, and reference to all material that justifies supporting acceptance. The organization submitting the tailoring request informs the next higher level of involved management in a timely manner of the tailoring request. The dispositioning organization reviews the request with the other organizations that could be impacted or have a potential risk (i.e., to safety, quality, cybersecurity, health) with the proposed changes; and obtains the concurrence of those organizations*.

2.2.6 Requests for software requirements relief at either the Center or Headquarters Technical Authority level (i.e., partial or complete relief) may be submitted in the streamlined form of a Requirements Mapping Matrix. The required signatures from engineering, Center CIO, and SMA authorities are to be obtained. A required signature from designated Center CIO is required for relief of cybersecurity requirements. If the Requirements Mapping Matrix is completed and approved in accordance with NPR 7120.5’s direction on Authority and this directive, it meets the requirements for requesting tailoring.

2.2.7 The engineering, CIO, and SMA authorities shall review and agree with any tailored NPR 7150.2 requirements per the requirements mapping matrix authority column. [SWE-150]

2.2.8 If a system or subsystem development evolves to meet a higher or lower software classification as defined in Appendix D, then the project manager shall update their plan to fulfill the applicable requirements per the Requirements Mapping Matrix in Appendix C and any approved changes and initiate adjustments to applicable supplier contracts to fulfill the modified requirements. [SWE-021]

  

# Chapter 3: Software Management Requirements

## 3.1 Software Life-Cycle Planning

3.1.1 Software life cycle planning covers the software aspects of a project from inception through retirement. The software life cycle planning cycle is an organizing process that considers the software as a whole and provides the planning activities required to ensure a coordinated, well-engineered process for defining and implementing project activities. These processes, plans, and activities are coordinated within the project. At project conception, software needs for the project are analyzed, including acquisition, supply, development, operation, maintenance, retirement, decommissioning, and supporting activities and processes. The software effort is scoped, the development processes defined, measurements defined, and activities are documented in software planning documents.

3.1.2 The project manager shall assess options for software acquisition versus development. [SWE-033]

*Note: The assessment can include risk, cost, and benefits criteria for each of the options listed below:*

a. Acquire an off-the-shelf software product that satisfies the requirement.

b. Develop a software product or obtain the software service internally.

c. Develop the software product or obtain the software service through contract.

d. Enhance an existing software product or service.

e. Reuse an existing software product or service.

f. Source code available external to NASA.

See the NASA Software Engineering Handbook for additional detail.

3.1.3 The project manager shall develop, maintain, and execute software plans that cover the entire software life cycle and, as a minimum, address the requirements of this directive with approved tailoring. [SWE-013]

*Note: The recommended practices and guidelines for the content of different types of software planning activities (whether stand-alone or condensed into one or more project level or software documents or electronic files) are defined in NASA-HDBK-2203. The project should include or reference in the software development plans procedures for coordinating the software development and the design and the system or project development life cycle*.

3.1.4 The project manager shall track the actual results and performance of software activities against the software plans. [SWE-024]

a. Corrective actions are taken, recorded, and managed to closure.

b. Including changes to commitments (e.g., software plans) that have been agreed to by the affected groups and individuals.

3.1.5 The project manager shall define and document the acceptance criteria for the software. [SWE-034]

3.1.6 The project manager shall establish and maintain the software processes, software documentation plans, list of developed electronic products, deliverables, and list of tasks for the software development that are required for the project’s software developers, as well as the action required (e.g., approval, review) of the Government upon receipt of each of the deliverables. [SWE-036]

*Note: A list of typical software engineering products or electronic data products used on a software project is contained in Chapter 6 of this directive. The software activities should include plans for software product verification and validation activities, software assurance, methods, environments, and criteria for the projec*t.

3.1.7 The project manager shall define and document the milestones at which the software developer(s) progress will be reviewed and audited. [SWE-037]

3.1.8 The project manager shall require the software developer(s) to periodically report status and provide insight into software development and test activities; at a minimum, the software developer(s) will be required to allow the project manager and software assurance personnel to: [SWE-039]

a. Monitor product integration.

b. Review the verification activities to ensure adequacy.

c. Review trades studies and source data.

d. Audit the software development processes and practices.

e. Participate in software reviews and technical interchange meetings.

3.1.9 The project manager shall require the software developer(s) to provide NASA with software products, traceability, software change tracking information and nonconformances, in electronic format, including software development and management metrics. [SWE-040]

3.1.10 The project manager shall require the software developer(s) to provide NASA with electronic access to the source code developed for the project in a modifiable format. [SWE-042]

*Note: The electronic access requirements for the source code, software products, and software process tracking information implies that NASA gets electronic copies of the items for use by NASA at NASA facilities. This requirement should include MOTS software, ground test software, simulations, ground analysis software, ground control software, science data processing software, hardware manufacturing software, and Class F software.*

3.1.11 The project manager shall comply with the requirements in this NPR that are marked with an ”X” in Appendix C consistent with their software classification. [SWE-139]

3.1.12 Where approved, the project manager shall document and reflect the tailored requirement in the plans or procedures controlling the development, acquisition, and deployment of the affected software. [SWE-121]

3.1.13 Each project manager with software components shall maintain a requirements mapping matrix or multiple requirements mapping matrices against requirements in this NPR, including those delegated to other parties or accomplished by contract vehicles or Space Act Agreements. [SWE-125]

*Note: A project may have multiple software engineering requirements mapping matrices if needed for multiple software components on a given project.*

*Note: Project relief from an applicable “X” requirement can be granted only by the designated Technical Authorities, Engineering, and Safety and Mission Assurance, or, for security issues, the NASA Chief Information Officer or designee. The record of their approval of the tailored requirements in a Requirements Mapping Matrix will be indicated by the Authority signature or signatures in the Requirements Mapping Matrix. The projects will document their related mitigations and risk acceptance in the approved Requirements Mapping Matrix. When the requirement and software class are marked with an “X,” the projects record the risk and rationale for any requirements that are entirely or partially relieved in the Requirements Mapping Matrix. The CIO has institutional authority on all Class F software projects.*

3.1.14 The project manager shall satisfy the following conditions when a COTS, GOTS, MOTS, OSS, or reused software component is acquired or used: [SWE-027]

a. The requirements to be met by the software component are identified.

b. The software component includes documentation to fulfill its intended purpose (e.g., usage instructions).

c. Proprietary rights, usage rights, ownership, warranty, licensing rights, and transfer rights have been addressed.

d. Future support for the software product is planned and adequate for project needs.

e. The software component is verified and validated to the same level required to accept a similar developed software component for its intended use.

f. The project has a plan to perform periodic assessments of vendor reported defects to ensure the defects do not impact the selected software components.

*Note: The project responsible for procuring off-the-shelf software is responsible for documenting, prior to procurement, a plan for verifying and validating the software to the same level that would be required for a developed software component. The project ensures that the COTS, GOTS, MOTS, reused, and auto-generated code software components and data meet the applicable requirements in this directive assigned to its software classification as shown in Appendix C.*

## 3.2 Software Cost Estimation

3.2.1 To better estimate the cost of development, the project manager shall establish, document, and maintain: [SWE-015]

a. Two cost estimate models and associated cost parameters for all Class A and B software projects that have an estimated project cost of $2 million or more.

b. One software cost estimate model and associated cost parameter(s) for all Class A and Class B software projects that have an estimated project cost of less than $2 million.

c. One software cost estimate model and associated cost parameter(s) for all C and D software projects.

d. One software cost estimate model and associated cost parameter(s) for all Class F software projects.

3.2.2 The project manager’s software cost estimate(s) shall satisfy the following conditions: [SWE-151]

a. Covers the entire software life-cycle.

b. Is based on selected project attributes (e.g., assessment of the size, functionality, complexity, criticality, reuse code, modified code, and risk of the software processes and products).

c. Is based on the cost implications of the technology to be used and the required maturation of that technology.

d. Incorporates risk and uncertainty, including cybersecurity.

e. Includes the cost of the required software assurance support.

f. Includes other direct costs.

*Note: In the event of a decision to outsource, it is a best practice that both the acquirer (NASA) and the provider (contractor/subcontractor) be responsible for developing software cost estimates. For any class of software that has significant risk exposure, consider performing at least two cost estimates.*

3.2.3 The project manager shall submit software planning parameters, including size and effort estimates, milestones, and characteristics, to the Center measurement repository at the conclusion of major milestones. [SWE-174]

## 3.3 Software Schedules

3.3.1 The project manager shall document and maintain a software schedule that satisfies the following conditions: [SWE-016]

a. Coordinates with the overall project schedule.

b. Documents the interactions of milestones and deliverables between software, hardware, operations, and the rest of the system.

c. Reflects the critical dependencies for software development activities.

d. Identifies and accounts for dependencies with other projects and cross-program dependencies.

3.3.2 The project manager shall regularly hold reviews of software schedule activities, metrics, status, and results with the project stakeholders and track issues to resolution. [SWE-018]

3.3.3 The project manager shall require the software developer(s) to provide a software schedule for the project's review, and schedule updates as requested. [SWE-046]

## 3.4 Software Training

3.4.1 The project manager shall plan, track, and ensure project specific software training for project personnel. [SWE-017]

*Note: This includes any software assurance personnel assigned to the project.*

## 3.5 Software Classification Assessments

3.5.1 The project manager shall classify each system and subsystem containing software in accordance with the highest applicable software classification definitions for Classes A, B, C, D, E, and F software in Appendix D. [SWE-020]

Note: The expected applicability of requirements in this directive to specific systems and subsystems containing software is determined through the use of the NASA-wide definitions for software classes in Appendix D in conjunction with the Requirements Mapping Matrix in Appendix C. These definitions are based on (1) usage of the software with or within a NASA system, (2) criticality of the system to NASA’s major programs and projects, (3) extent to which humans depend upon the system, (4) developmental and operational complexity, and (5) extent of the Agency’s investment.

3.5.2 The project manager shall maintain records of each software classification determination, each software Requirements Mapping Matrix, and the results of each software independent classification assessments for the life of the project. [SWE-176]

## 3.6 Software Assurance and Software Independent Verification & Validation

3.6.1 The project manager shall plan and implement software assurance per NASA-STD-8739.8. [SWE-022]

*Note: Software assurance activities occur throughout the life of the project. Some of the actual analyses and activities may be performed by engineering or the project. Software Assurance directions, requirements, and guidance can be found in the NASA-STD-8739.8, the Software Engineering Handbook, and the Software Assurance Handbook.*

3.6.2 For projects reaching Key Decision Point A the program manager shall ensure that software IV&V is performed on the following categories of projects: [SWE-141]

a. Category 1 projects as defined in NPR 7120.5.

b. Category 2 projects as defined in NPR 7120.5 that have Class A or Class B payload risk classification per NPR 8705.4.

c. Projects selected explicitly by the NASA Chief of the Office of Safety and Mission Assurance to have software IV&V.

*Note: The NASA IV&V Board of Advisors supports the NASA Chief, Safety and Mission Assurance by recommending significant project needs for software IV&V beyond projects meeting the criteria in items a. and b. of SWE-141. Exceptions to the above requirement will be written by the project and responsible Center SMA organization, adjudicated by the NASA IV&V Board of Advisors, with the final decision by the NASA Chief, Safety and Mission Assurance. Additional projects, projects in other phases, or projects without a payload risk classification can be selected by the NASA Chief, SMA to be required to have software IV&V. It is NASA policy to use the NASA Independent Verification and Validation Facility as the sole provider of IV&V services when software created by or for NASA is selected for IV&V by the NASA Chief, Safety and Mission Assurance. IV&V support is funded and managed independently of the selected project.*

3.6.3 If software IV&V is performed on a project, the project manager shall ensure an IPEP is developed, negotiated, approved, maintained, and executed. [SWE-131]

*Note: The scope of IV&V services is determined by the IV&V provider, documented in the IPEP, and approved by the NASA IV&V Program. The IPEP is developed by the IV&V provider and serves as the operational document that will be shared with the project receiving IV&V support.*

3.6.4 If software IV&V is performed on a project, the project manager shall ensure that IV&V is provided access to development artifacts, products, source code, and data required to perform the IV&V analysis efficiently and effectively. [SWE-178]

*Note: The artifacts and products should be provided electronically in original format (i.e., non-pdf) and, where possible, direct read-only electronic access to project document repositories and data stores should be provided. Appropriate security products shall be completed and transferred as part of the overall package.*

3.6.5 If software IV&V is performed on a project, the project manager shall provide responses to IV&V submitted issues and risks, and track these issues and risks to closure. [SWE-179]

## 3.7 Safety-Critical Software

3.7.1 The project manager, in conjunction with the SMA organization, shall determine if each software component is considered to be safety-critical per the criteria defined in NASA-STD-8739.8. [SWE-205]

3.7.2 If a project has safety-critical software, the project manager shall implement the safety-critical software requirements contained in NASA-STD-8739.8. [SWE-023]

3.7.3 If a project has safety-critical software or mission-critical software, the project manager shall implement the following items in the software: [SWE-134]

a. The software is initialized, at first start and restarts, to a known safe state.

b. The software safely transitions between all predefined known states.

c. Termination performed by software functions is performed to a known safe state.

d. Operator overrides of software functions require at least two independent actions by an operator.

e. Software rejects commands received out of sequence when execution of those commands out of sequence can cause a hazard.

f. The software detects inadvertent memory modification and recovers to a known safe state.

g. The software performs integrity checks on inputs and outputs to/from the software system.

h. The software performs prerequisite checks prior to the execution of safety-critical software commands.

i. No single software event or action is allowed to initiate an identified hazard.

j. The software responds to an off-nominal condition within the time needed to prevent a hazardous event.

k. The software provides error handling.

l. The software can place the system into a safe state.

*Note: These requirements apply to components that reside in a mission-critical or safety-critical system, and the components control, mitigate, or contribute to a hazard as well as software used to command hazardous operations/activities.*

## 3.8 Automatic Generation of Software Source Code

3.8.1 The project manager shall define the approach to the automatic generation of software source code including: [SWE-146]

a. Validation and verification of auto-generation tools.

b. Configuration management of the auto-generation tools and associated data.

c. Description of the limits and the allowable scope for the use of the auto-generated software.

d. Verification and validation of auto-generated source code using the same software standards and processes as hand-generated code.

e. Monitoring the actual use of auto-generated source code compared to the planned use.

f. Policies and procedures for making manual changes to auto-generated source code.

g. Configuration management of the input to the auto-generation tool, the output of the auto-generation tool, and modifications made to the output of the auto-generation tools.

3.8.2 The project manager shall require the software developers and suppliers to provide NASA with electronic access to the models, simulations, and associated data used as inputs for auto-generation of software. [SWE-206]

*Note: The term electronic access includes access to the data from NASA facilities.*

## 3.9 Software Development Processes and Practices

3.9.1 The CMMI model is an industry-accepted model of software development practices. It is utilized to assess how well NASA projects are supported by software development organization(s) having the necessary skills, practices, and processes in place to produce reliable products within cost and schedule estimates. The CMMI model provides NASA with a methodology to:

a. Measure software development organizations against an industry-wide set of best practices that address software development and maintenance activities applied to products and services.

b. Measure and compare the maturity of an organization's product development and acquisition processes with the industry state of the practice.

c. Measure and ensure compliance with the intent of the directive’s process related requirements using an industry standard approach.

d. Assess internal and external software development organization’s processes and practices.

e. Identify potential risk areas within a given organization's software development processes and practices.

3.9.2 The CMMI-DEV is an internationally used framework for process improvement in development organizations. It is an organized collection of best practices and proven processes that thousands of software organizations have both used and been appraised against over the past two decades. CMMI ratings can cover a team, a group, a project, a division, or an entire organization.

3.9.3 The project manager shall acquire, develop, and maintain software from an organization with a non-expired CMMI-DEV rating as measured by a CMMI Institute Certified Lead Appraiser as follows: [SWE-032]

a. For Class A software: CMMI-DEV Maturity Level 3 Rating or higher for software.

b. For Class B software (except Class B software on NASA Class D payloads, as defined in NPR 8705.4): CMMI-DEV Maturity Level 2 Rating or higher for software.

*Note: Organizations need to complete an official CMMI Institute defined appraisal against either the CMMI-DEV model V1.3 or V2.0. Organizations are to maintain their rating and have their results posted on the CMMI Institute Web site, or provide an Appraisal Disclosure Statement so that NASA can assess the current maturity/capability rating. Software development organizations need to maintain their appraisal rating during the period they are responsible for the development and maintenance of the software.*

*Note: For Class B software, an exception can be exercised for those cases in which NASA wishes to purchase a product from the "best in class provider," but the best in class provider does not have the required CMMI® rating. For Class B software, instead of a CMMI® rating by a development organization, the project will conduct an evaluation, performed by a qualified evaluator selected by the Center Engineering Technical Authority, against the CMMI-DEV Maturity Level 2 practices, and mitigate any risk, if deficiencies are identified in the evaluation. If this approach is used, the development organization and project are responsible for correcting the deficiencies identified in the evaluation. When this exception is exercised, the OCE and Center Engineering Technical Authority are notified of the proposition and provided the results of the evaluation. The project manager should seek guidance from the Center Office of Procurement for help in making these determinations.*

## 3.10 Software Reuse

3.10.1 The project manager shall specify reusability requirements that apply to its software development activities to enable future reuse of the software, including the models, simulations, and associated data used as inputs for auto-generation of software, for United States Government purposes. [SWE-147]

3.10.2 The project manager shall evaluate software for potential reuse by other projects across NASA and contribute reuse candidates to the NASA Internal Sharing and Reuse Software systems, however, if the project manager is a contractor, then a civil servant must pre-approve all such software contributions; all software contributions should include, at a minimum, the following information: [SWE-148]

a. Software Title.

b. Software Description.

c. The Civil Servant Software Technical Point of Contact for the software product.

d. The language or languages used to develop the software.

e. Any third party code contained therein, and the record of the requisite license or permission received from the third party permitting the Government’s use, if applicable.

*Note: The NASA Internal Sharing and Reuse Software Inventory will be accessed through Launchpad, and the software list will be available to NASA civil servants and contractors; however, only NASA civil servants will be the recipient of software via the systems in the Inventory. The Inventory will provide the NASA civil servant a simple Acknowledgment of Receipt of the software that identifies any restrictions on NASA's right to use the software, including limiting its use to governmental purposes only. This Acknowledgment will be done via click-wrap acceptance. The Civil Servant Software Technical Point of Contact for the software product must keep a list of all contributors to the software. Any software shared via the NASA Internal Sharing and Reuse Software Inventory will contain appropriate disclaimer and indemnification provisions (e.g., in a “README” file) stating that the software may be subject to U.S. export control restrictions, and it is provided "as is" without any warranty, express, or implied and that the recipient waives any claims against, and indemnifies and holds harmless, NASA and its contractors and subcontractors (see paragraph 2.1.4.17).*

3.10.3 In accordance with NPD 2091.1, Inventions Made by Government Employees NASA Civil Servant employees who make an invention embodied by software must submit to NASA a disclosure of such invention. Likewise, such inventions made by NASA contractors are reported to NASA, preferably through the NASA e-NTR system, pursuant to the terms of their respective contract. Such disclosures are made through the NASA e-NTR system available at http://invention.nasa.gov/.

## 3.11 Software Cybersecurity

3.11.1 Software defects are a central and critical aspect of computer security vulnerabilities. Software defects with cybersecurity ramifications include implementation bugs such as buffer overflows and design flaws such as inconsistent error handling.

*Note: Software security relies on high-quality code development and testing practices (clean code, modular structure, well-defined interfaces) – anything that reduces error rates and opportunities misinterpretation or error; considers both the development and deployment/operational context for the software; has the ability to rapidly assess, triage, correct, and deploy security-related updates while the software is in deployment/operations.*

3.11.2 The project manager shall perform a software cybersecurity assessment on the software components per the Agency security policies and the project requirements, including risks posed by the use of COTS, GOTS, MOTS, OSS, or reused software components. [SWE-156]

3.11.3 The project manager shall identify cybersecurity risks, along with their mitigations, in flight and ground software systems and plan the mitigations for these systems. [SWE-154]

*Note: Space Asset or Enterprise Protection Plans are a source of requirements to identify cybersecurity risks, along with their mitigations, in-flight and ground software systems. Space Asset or Enterprise Protection Plans describe the program's approach for planning and implementing the requirements for information, physical, personnel, industrial, and counterintelligence/counterterrorism security, and for security awareness/education requirements in accordance with NPR 1600.1, NPD 1600.2, NPD 2810.1, and NPR 2810.1. Include provisions in the plan to protect personnel, facilities, mission-essential infrastructure, and critical program information from potential threats and vulnerabilities that may be identified during the threat and vulnerability assessment process.*

3.11.4 The project manager shall implement protections for software systems with communications capabilities against unauthorized access. [SWE-157]

3.11.5 The project manager shall ensure that space flight software systems are assessed for possible cybersecurity vulnerabilities and weaknesses. [SWE-158]

3.11.6 The project manager shall address identified cybersecurity vulnerabilities and weaknesses. [SWE-155]

3.11.7 The project manager shall test the software and record test results for the required software cybersecurity mitigation implementations identified from the security vulnerabilities and security weaknesses analysis. [SWE-159]

*Note: Include assessments for security vulnerabilities during Peer Review/Inspections of software requirements and design. Utilize automated security static analysis as well as coding standard static analyses of software code to find potential security vulnerabilities.*

3.11.8 The project manager shall identify, record, and implement secure coding practices. [SWE-207]

3.11.9 The project manager shall verify that the software code meets the project’s secure coding standard by using the results from static analysis tool(s). [SWE-185]

## 3.12 Software Bi-Directional Traceability

3.12.1 The project manager shall perform, record, and maintain bi-directional traceability between the following software elements: [SWE-052]

Table 1. Bi-directional traceability by software classification

|  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Bi-directional Traceability | Class A, B, and C | Class D | Class F |
| Higher-level requirements to the software requirements | X |  | X |
| Software requirements to the system hazards | X | X |  |
| Software requirements to the software design components | X |  |  |
| Software design components to the software code | X |  |  |
| Software requirements to the software test procedures | X | X | X |
| Software requirements to the software non-conformances | X | X | X |

*Note: The project manager will maintain bi-directional traceability between the software requirements and software-related system hazards, including hazardous controls, hazardous mitigations, hazardous conditions, and hazardous events.*

  

# Chapter 4: Software Engineering Life-Cycle Requirements

## 4.1 Software Requirements

4.1.1 The requirements phase is one of the most critical phases of software engineering. Studies show that the top problems in the software industry are due to poor requirements elicitation, inadequate requirements specification, and inadequate management of changes to requirements. Requirements provide the foundation for the entire life cycle, as well as for the software product. Requirements also provide a basis for planning, estimating, and monitoring. Requirements are based on customer, user, and other stakeholder needs and design and development constraints. The development of requirements includes elicitation, analysis, documentation, verification, and validation. Ongoing customer validation of the requirements to ensure the end products meet customer needs is an integral part of the life-cycle process. Customer validation can be accomplished via rapid prototyping and customer-involved reviews of iterative and final software requirements.

4.1.2 The project manager shall establish, capture, record, approve, and maintain software requirements, including requirements for COTS, GOTS, MOTS, OSS or reused software components, as part of the technical specification. [SWE-050]

*Note: The software technical requirements definition process is used to transform the baselined stakeholder expectations into unique, quantitative, and measurable technical software requirements that can be used for defining a design solution for the software end products and related enabling products. This process also includes validation of the requirements to ensure that the requirements are well-formed (clear and unambiguous), complete (agrees with customer and stakeholder needs and expectations), consistent (conflict free), and individually verifiable and traceable to a higher level requirement. Recommended content for a software specification can be found in NASA-HDBK-2203.*

4.1.3 The project manager shall perform software requirements analysis based on flowed-down and derived requirements from the top-level systems engineering requirements, safety and reliability analyses, and the hardware specifications and design. [SWE-051]

4.1.4 The project manager shall include software related safety constraints, controls, mitigations and assumptions between the hardware, operator, and software in the software requirements documentation. [SWE-184]

4.1.5 The project manager shall track and manage changes to the software requirements. [SWE-053]

4.1.6 The project manager shall identify, initiate corrective actions, and track until closure inconsistencies among requirements, project plans, and software products. [SWE-054]

4.1.7 The project manager shall perform requirements validation to ensure that the software will perform as intended in the customer environment. [SWE-055]

## 4.2 Software Architecture

4.2.1 Experience confirms that the quality and longevity of a software-reliant system is primarily determined by its architecture. The software architecture underpins a system's software design and code; it represents the earliest design decisions, ones that are difficult and costly to change later. The transformation of the derived and allocated requirements into the software architecture results in the basis for all software development work.

4.2.2 A software architecture:

a. Formalizes precise subsystem decompositions.

b. Defines and formalizes the dependencies among software work products within the integrated system.

c. Serves as the basis for evaluating the impacts of proposed changes.

d. Maintains rules for use by subsequent software engineers that ensure a consistent software system as the work products evolve.

e. Provides a stable structure for use by future groups through the documentation of the architecture, its views and patterns, and its rules.

f. Follows guidelines created by the NASA Space Asset and the Enterprise Protection Program to protect mission architectures.

g. The provider documents the valid and invalid modes or states of operation within the software requirements.

4.2.3 The project manager shall transform the requirements for the software into a recorded software architecture. [SWE-057]

*Note: A documented software architecture that describes: the software’s structure; identifies the software qualities (i.e., performance, modifiability, and security); identifies the known interfaces between the software components and the components external to the software (both software and hardware); identifies the interfaces between the software components and identifies the software components.*

4.2.4 The project manager shall perform a software architecture review on the following categories of projects: [SWE-143]

a. Category 1 Projects as defined in NPR 7120.5.

b. Category 2 Projects as defined in NPR 7120.5 that have Class A or Class B payload risk classification per NPR 8705.4.

## 4.3 Software Design

4.3.1 Software design is the process of defining the software architecture, components, modules, interfaces, and data for a software system to satisfy specified requirements. The software architecture is the fundamental organization of a system embodied in its components, their relationships to each other and the environment, and the principles guiding its design and evolution. The software architectural design is concerned with creating a strong overall structure for software entities that fulfill the allocated system and software-level requirements. Typical views captured in an architectural design include the decomposition of the software subsystem into design entities, computer software configuration items, definitions of external and internal interfaces, dependency relationships among entities and system resources, and finite state machines. The design should be further refined into lower-level entities that permit the implementation by coding in a programming language. Typical attributes that are documented for lower-level entities include the identifier, type, purpose, function, constraints, subordinates, dependencies, interface, resources, processing, and data. Rigorous specification languages, graphical representations, and related tools have been developed to support the evaluation of critical properties at the design level. Projects are encouraged to take advantage of these improved design techniques to prevent and eliminate errors as early in the life-cycle as possible.

4.3.2 The project manager shall develop, record, and maintain a software design based on the software architectural design that describes the lower-level units so that they can be coded, compiled, and tested. [SWE-058]

## 4.4 Software Implementation

4.4.1 Software implementation consists of implementing the requirements and design into code, data, and records. Software implementation also consists of following coding methods and standards. Unit testing is also usually a part of software implementation (unit testing can also be conducted during the testing phase).

4.4.2 The project manager shall implement the software design into software code. [SWE-060]

4.4.3 The project manager shall select and adhere to software coding methods, standards, and criteria. [SWE-061]

4.4.4 The project manager shall use static analysis tools to analyze the code during the development and testing phases to detect defects, software security, and coding errors. [SWE-135]

4.4.5 The project manager shall unit test the software code. [SWE-062]

4.4.6 The project manager shall assure that the unit test results are repeatable. [SWE-186]

4.4.7 The project manager shall provide a software version description for each software release. [SWE-063]

4.4.8 The project manager shall validate and accredit the software tool(s) required to develop or maintain software. [SWE-136]

*Note: All software development tools contain some number of software defects. Validation and accreditation of the critical software development and maintenance tools ensure that the tools being used during the software development life cycle do not generate or insert errors in the software executable components. Software tool accreditation is the certification that a software tool is acceptable for use for a specific purpose. Accreditation is conferred by the organization best positioned to make the judgment that the software tool in question is acceptable. The likelihood that work products will function properly is enhanced, and the risk of error is reduced if the tools used in the development and maintenance processes have been validated and accredited themselves.*

## 4.5 Software Testing

4.5.1 The purpose of testing is to verify the software functionality and remove defects. Testing verifies the code against the requirements and the design to ensure that the requirements are implemented. Testing also identifies problems and defects that are corrected and tracked to closure before product delivery. Testing also validates that the software operates appropriately in the intended environment. Please note for Class A software there are additional software test requirements and software integration requirements in NPR 8705.2.

4.5.2 The project manager shall establish and maintain: [SWE-065]

a. Software test plan(s).

b. Software test procedure(s).

c. Software test report(s).

4.5.3 The project manager shall test the software against its requirements. [SWE-066]

*Note: A best practice for Class A, B, and C software projects is to have formal software testing planned, conducted, witnessed, and approved by an independent organization outside of the development team.*

4.5.4 The project manager shall place software items under configuration management prior to testing. [SWE-187]

*Note: This includes the software components being tested and the software components being used to test the software, including components like support software, models, simulations, ground support software, COTS, GOTS, MOTS, OSS, or reused software components.*

4.5.5 The project manager shall evaluate test results and record the evaluation. [SWE-068]

4.5.6 The project manager shall use validated and accredited software models, simulations, and analysis tools required to perform qualification of flight software or flight equipment. [SWE-070]

*Note: Information regarding specific V&V techniques and the analysis of models and simulations can be found in NASA-STD-7009, Standard for Models and Simulations, NASA-HDBK-7009, Handbook for Models and Simulations, or discipline-specific recommended practice guides.*

4.5.7 The project manager shall update the software test plan(s) and the software test procedure(s) to be consistent with software requirements. [SWE-071]

4.5.8 The project manager shall validate the software system on the targeted platform or high-fidelity simulation. [SWE-073]

*Note: Typically, a high-fidelity simulation has the exact processor, processor performance, timing, memory size, and interfaces as the target system*.

4.5.9 The project manager shall ensure that the code coverage measurements for the software are selected, implemented, tracked, recorded, and reported. [SWE-189]

*Note: This requirement can be met by running unit, integration, and validation tests; measuring the code coverage; and achieving the code coverage by additional (requirement based) tests, inspection, or analysis. If the project does not get 100 percent structural coverage, it means one of four things and each requires action on the project manager’s part: requirement missing - the code that hasn’t been covered is performing an essential activity, but no requirement indicates that this should be done; test missing - the code that hasn’t been covered relates to an existing requirement, but no test was implemented for it; extraneous/dead code – the code that hasn’t been covered is not traceable to any requirement and isn’t needed by the software; deactivated code - the code that hasn’t been covered isn’t traceable to any requirements for the current system, but is intended to be executed in specific configurations. The code coverage data and any rationale for uncovered code should be presented and reviewed at major project milestones.*

4.5.10 The project manager shall verify code coverage is measured by analysis of the results of the execution of tests. [SWE-190]

*Note: If it can be justified that the required percentage cannot be achieved by test execution, the analysis, inspection, or review of design can be applied to the non-covered code. The goal of the complementary analysis is to assess that the non-covered code behavior is as expected.*

4.5.11 The project manager shall plan and conduct software regression testing to demonstrate that defects have not been introduced into previously integrated or tested software and have not produced a security vulnerability. [SWE-191]

4.5.12 The project manager shall verify through test the software requirements that trace to a hazardous event, cause, or mitigation technique. [SWE-192]

4.5.13 The project manager shall develop acceptance tests for loaded or uplinked data, rules, and code that affects software and software system behavior. [SWE-193]

*Note: These acceptance tests should validate and verify the data, rules, and code for nominal and off-nominal scenarios.*

4.5.14 The project manager shall test embedded COTS, GOTS, MOTS, OSS, or reused software components to the same level required to accept a custom developed software component for its intended use. [SWE-211]

## 4.6 Software Operations, Maintenance, and Retirement

4.6.1 Planning for operations, maintenance, and retirement are typically considered throughout the software life cycle. Operational concepts and scenarios are derived from customer requirements and validated in the operational or simulated environment. Software maintenance activities sustain the software product after the product is delivered to the customer until retirement.

4.6.2 The project manager shall plan and implement software operations, maintenance, and retirement activities. [SWE-075]

4.6.3 The project manager shall complete and deliver the software product to the customer with appropriate records, including as-built records, to support the operations and maintenance phase of the software’s life cycle. [SWE-077]

4.6.4 The project manager shall complete, prior to delivery, verification that all software requirements identified for this delivery have been met, that all approved changes have been implemented, and that all defects designated for resolution prior to delivery have been resolved. [SWE-194]

4.6.5 The project manager shall maintain the software using standards and processes per the applicable software classification throughout the maintenance phase. [SWE-195]

4.6.6 The project manager shall identify the records and software tools to be archived, the location of the archive, and procedures for access to the products for software retirement or disposal. [SWE-196]

  

# Chapter 5: Supporting Software Life-Cycle Requirements

## 5.1 Software Configuration Management (SCM)

5.1.1 Software Configuration Management (SCM) is the process of applying configuration management throughout the software life cycle to ensure the completeness and correctness of software configuration items. SCM applies technical and administrative direction and surveillance to identify and record the functional and physical characteristics of software configuration items, control changes to those characteristics, record and report change processing and implementation status, and verify compliance with specified requirements. SCM establishes and maintains the integrity of the products of a software project throughout the software life-cycle. Use of standard Center or organizational SCM processes and procedures is encouraged where applicable.

5.1.2 The project manager shall develop a software configuration management plan that describes the functions, responsibilities, and authority for the implementation of software configuration management for the project. [SWE-079]

5.1.3 The project manager shall track and evaluate changes to software products. [SWE-080]

5.1.4 The project manager shall identify the software configuration items (e.g., software records, code, data, tools, models, scripts) and their versions to be controlled for the project. [SWE-081]

*Note: The items to be controlled include tools, items, or settings used to develop the software, which could impact the software. Examples of such items include compiler/assembler versions, makefiles, batch files, and specific environment settings*.

5.1.5 The project manager shall establish and implement procedures to: [SWE-082]

a. Designate the levels of control through which each identified software configuration item is required to pass.

b. Identify the persons or groups with authority to authorize changes.

c. Identify the persons or groups to make changes at each level.

*Note: IEEE 828-2012 describes configuration management processes to be established, how they are to be accomplished, who is responsible for doing specific activities, when they are to happen, and what specific resources are required. It addresses configuration management activities over a product's life-cycle. Configuration management in systems and software engineering is a specialty discipline within the larger discipline of configuration management. Configuration management is essential to systems engineering and software engineering.*

5.1.6 The project manager shall prepare and maintain records of the configuration status of software configuration items. [SWE-083]

5.1.7 The project manager shall perform software configuration audits to determine the correct version of the software configuration items and verify that they conform to the records that define them. [SWE-084]

5.1.8 The project manager shall establish and implement procedures for the storage, handling, delivery, release, and maintenance of deliverable software products. [SWE-085]

5.1.9 The project manager shall participate in any joint NASA/developer audits. [SWE-045]

## 5.2 Software Risk Management

5.2.1 The project manager shall record, analyze, plan, track, control, and communicate all of the software risks and mitigation plans. [SWE-086]

## 5.3 Software Peer Reviews and Inspections

5.3.1 Software peer reviews and inspections are the in-process technical examination of work products by peers to find and eliminate defects early in the life-cycle. Software peer reviews and inspections are performed following defined procedures covering the preparation for the review, the review itself is conducted, results are recorded, results are reported, and completion criteria is certified. When planning the composition of a software peer review or inspection team, consider including software testing, system testing, software assurance, software safety, software cybersecurity, and software IV&V personnel.

5.3.2 The project manager shall perform and report the results of software peer reviews or software inspections for: [SWE-087]

a. Software requirements.

b. Software plans.

c. Any design items that the project identified for software peer review or software inspections according to the software development plans.

d. Software code as defined in the software and or project plans.

e. Software test procedures.

*Note: Software peer reviews or software inspections are recommended best practices for all safety and mission-success related software components. Recommended best practices and guidelines for software formal inspections are contained in NASA-STD-8739.9.*

5.3.3 The project manager shall, for each planned software peer review or software inspection: [SWE-088]

a. Use a checklist or formal reading technique (e.g., perspective based reading) to evaluate the work products.

b. Use established readiness and completion criteria.

c. Track actions identified in the reviews until they are resolved.

d. Identify the required participants.

5.3.4 The project manager shall, for each planned software peer review or software inspection, record necessary measurements. [SWE-089]

## 5.4 Software Measurements

5.4.1 Software measurement is a primary tool for managing software processes and evaluating the quality of software products. Analysis of measures provides insight into the capability of the software organization and identifies opportunities for software process and product improvements. Software measurement programs at multiple levels are established to meet measurement objectives. The requirements below are designed to reinforce the use of measurement at the project, Center software organization, and NASA Chief Engineer levels to assist in managing projects, assuring quality, and improving software engineering practices. Measurement programs are designed to meet the following goals:

a. Improve future software planning and software cost estimation.

b. Describe and record information about a software product during its life-cycle.

c. Assist usability and maintainability of a software product.

d. Monitor and control software life-cycle processes.

e. Communicate information about the system, software product, or service.

f. Provide a history, including lessons learned, during the development and maintenance to support management and process improvement.

g. Provide evidence that the processes were followed.

h. Provide indicators of software quality.

i. Track the status of software engineering improvement and assurance programs.

j. Report the status of software engineering improvements and assurance programs to Center software organizations and Center SMA.

5.4.2 The project manager shall establish, record, maintain, report, and utilize software management and technical measurements. [SWE-090]

*Note: The NASA-HDBK-2203 contains a set of candidate management indicators that might be used on a software development project. The NASA Chief Engineer may identify and document additional Center measurement objectives, software measurements, collection procedures and guidelines, and analysis procedures for selected software projects and software development organizations. The software measurement process includes collecting software technical measurement data from the project's software developer(s).*

5.4.3 The project manager shall analyze software measurement data collected using documented project-specified and Center/organizational analysis procedures. [SWE-093]

5.4.4 The project manager shall provide access to the software measurement data, measurement analyses, and software development status as requested to the sponsoring Mission Directorate, the NASA Chief Engineer, the Center Technical Authorities, and Headquarters SMA. [SWE-094]

5.4.5 The project manager shall monitor measures to ensure the software will meet or exceed performance and functionality requirements, including satisfying constraints. [SWE-199]

*Note: The metrics could include planned and actual use of computer hardware resources (such as processor capacity, memory capacity, input/output device capacity, auxiliary storage device capacity, and communications/network equipment capacity, bus traffic, partition allocation) over time. As part of the verification of the software detailed design, the developer will update the estimation of the technical resource metrics. As part of the verification of the coding, testing, and validation, the technical resource metrics will be updated with the measured values and will be compared to the margins.*

5.4.6 The project manager shall collect, track, and report software requirements volatility metrics. [SWE-200]

*Note: Software requirements volatility metrics are the total number of requirements compared to requirement changes over time. It may include additions, changes, and reduction of requirements.*

## 5.5 Software Non-conformance or Defect Management

5.5.1 The project manager shall track and maintain software non-conformances (including defects in tools and appropriate ground software). [SWE-201]

5.5.2 The project manager shall define and implement clear software severity levels for all software non-conformances (including tools, COTS, GOTS, MOTS, OSS, reused software components, and applicable ground systems). [SWE-202]

*Note: At a minimum, classes should include loss of life or loss of vehicle, mission success, visible to the user with operational workarounds, and an 'other' class that does not meet previous criteria.*

5.5.3 The project manager shall implement mandatory assessments of reported non-conformances for all COTS, GOTS, MOTS, OSS, or reused software components. [SWE-203]

*Note: This includes operating systems, run-time systems, device drivers, code generators, compilers, math libraries, and build and Configuration Management (CM) tools. It should be performed pre-flight, with mandatory code audits for critical defects.*

5.5.4 The project manager shall implement process assessments for all high-severity software non-conformances (closed loop process). [SWE-204]

  

# Chapter 6: Recommended Software Records Content

6.1 It is possible to prepare a plan, associated procedures, and reports, as well as numerous records, requests, descriptions, and specifications for each software development life-cycle process. When deciding how to prepare any of these items, consider the users of the information first. Reviewing and understanding the requirements, needs, and background of users and stakeholders are essential to applying the recommendations for the content of software records defined in NASA-HDBK-2203. Specific content within these records may not apply to every project. Use of NASA Center and contractor formats in document deliverables is acceptable if the required content (as defined by the project) is addressed. Product records should be reviewed and updated as necessary. Typical software engineering products or electronic data include:

a. Software Development Plan/Software Management Plan.

b. Software Schedule.

c. Software Cost Estimate.

d. Software Configuration Management Plan.

e. Software Change Reports.

f. Software Test Plans.

g. Software Test Procedures.

h. Software Test Reports.

i. Software Version Description Reports.

j. Software Maintenance Plan.

k. Software Assurance Plan(s).

l. Software Safety Plan.

m. Software Requirements Specification.

n. Software Data Dictionary.

o. Software and Interface Design Description (Architectural Design).

p. Software Design Description.

q. Software User's Manual.

r. Records of Continuous Risk Management for Software.

s. Software Measurement Analysis Results.

t. Record of Software Engineering Trade-off Criteria & Assessments (make/buy decision).

u. Software Acceptance Criteria and Conditions.

v. Software Status Reports.

w. Programmer's/Developer's Manual.

left

x. Software Reuse Report.

y. Software Model and Simulation Data and Documentation, including the Verification, Validation, and Credibility Plan for Software Model and Simulation.

6.2 The recommendations for the content of software records are defined in NASA-HDBK-2203. The Software Engineering handbook also provides guidance regarding when these records should be drafted, baselined, and updated. Examples and templates for these records and datasets are on the Software Process Across NASA (SPAN) Web site, accessible at https://swehb.nasa.gov/

  

# Appendix A. Definitions

**Accredit**. The official acceptance of a software development tool, model, or simulation (including associated data) to use for a specific purpose.

**Analysis**. The post-processing or interpretation of the individual values, arrays, files of data, or execution information. It is a careful study of something to learn about its parts, what they do, and how they are related to each other.

**Assure**. When personnel makes certain that the specified software engineering, software management, and software assurance activities have been performed by others.
Bidirectional Traceability. Association among two or more logical entities that are discernible in either direction (to and from an entity). (ISO/IEC/IEEE 24765)
Code coverage. The percentage of the software that has been executed (covered) by the test suite.

**Commercial Off-the-Shelf Software**. The software product is available for purchase and use without the need to conduct development activities. COTS solutions, as opposed to custom-developed solutions, are typically readily available and ready for use as purchased.

**Computer**. A functional unit that can perform substantial computations, including numerous arithmetic operations and logic operations.

**Computer Software Configuration Item**. An aggregation of software that is designated for configuration management and treated as a single entity in the configuration management process.

**Computer System**. A system containing one or more computers and associated software. (Source: ISO/IEC/IEEE 24765)

**Contracted Software**. Software created for a project by a contractor or subcontractor.

**Cybersecurity**. The protection of information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide confidentiality, integrity, and availability.

**Data**. Information for computer processing (e.g., numbers, text, images, and sounds in a form that is suitable for storage in or processing by a computer).

**Embedded Computer System**. A computer system that is part of a larger system and performs some of the requirements of that system. (Source: ISO/IEC/IEEE 24765)

**Embedded Software**. Software that is part of a larger system and performs some of the requirements of that system. (Source: ISO/IEC/IEEE 24765)

**Ensure**. To secure or guarantee, to make sure or certain.

**Establish and Maintain**. Formulation, documentation, use/deployment, and current maintenance of the object (usually a document, requirement, process, or policy) by the responsible project, organization, or individual.

**Freeware**. Software that is proprietary and that is available for use at no monetary cost. In other words, freeware may be used without payment but may usually not be modified, re-distributed, or reverse-engineered without the author's permission.

**Glueware**. Software created to connect the off-the-shelf software/reused software with the rest of the system. It may take the form of software that modifies interfaces or add missing functionality, "firewalls" that isolate the off-the-shelf software, or software that check inputs and outputs to the off-the-shelf software and may modify to prevent failures.

**Government Off-the-Shelf Software**. Government Off-the-Shelf Software refers to Government-created software, usually from another project. The software was not created by the current developers (see software reuse). Usually, the source code is included and documentation, including test and analysis results, is available; e.g., the Government is responsible for the Government off-the-shelf (GOTS) software to be incorporated into another system.

**Independent Verification and Validation**. Verification and validation performed by an organization that is technically, managerially, and financially independent of the development organization. (Source: ISO/IEC/IEEE 24765) The NASA requirements for Independent Verification and Validation are defined in the NASA-STD-8739.8.

**Information Technology**. Any equipment or interconnected system(s) or subsystem(s) of equipment that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the Agency (reference FAR 2.101). (Source: NPR 2800.1)

**Insight**. An element of Government surveillance that monitors contractor compliance using Government-identified metrics and contracted milestones. Insight is a continuum that can range from low intensity such as reviewing quarterly reports to high intensity such as performing surveys and reviews. (Source: NPR 7123.1)

**Legacy and Heritage Software**. Software products (architecture, code, requirements) written specifically for one project and then, without prior planning during its initial development, found to be useful for other projects. See software reuse.

**Major Engineering/Research Facility.** Used in this document to show research, development, test, or simulation facilities representing a significant NASA investment (facilities with a Current Replace Value equal to or greater than 50 million dollars) which contains software that supports programs and projects managed under NPR 7120.5, NPR 7120.7, or NPR 7120.8 and that have a Mission Dependency Index value equal to or greater than 70.

**Mission Critical.** Item or function that should retain its operational capability to assure no mission failure (i.e., for mission success - meeting all mission objectives and requirements for performance and safety). (Source: NPR 8715.3)

**Mobile Application.** A mobile application is an application built using native code for the device or a software Web application that is distributed through the device specific marketplace. Web applications presented via a mobile browser are not considered mobile applications.

**Model**. A description or representation of a system, entity, phenomena, or process. (Source: NASA-STD-7009) Only for this document, the term "model" refers to models implemented in software.

**Modified Off-the-Shelf Software**. When COTS or legacy and heritage software is reused, or heritage software is changed, the product is considered "modified." The changes can include all or part of the software products and may involve additions, deletions, and specific alterations. An argument can be made that any alterations to the code and design of an off-the-shelf software component constitute "modification," but the common usage allows for some percentage (less than 5 percent of the code changes) of change before the off-the-shelf software is declared to be modified off-the-shelf (MOTS) software. Modified Off-the-Shelf Software may include the changes to the application shell or glueware to add or protect against certain features and not to the off-the-shelf software system code directly. When less than 30 percent of the existing code changes, the product can be considered "modified." If more than 30 percent of the code changes or if the new code is added, the software should be considered a new software development.

**Off-the-Shelf Software**. Software not developed in-house or by a contractor for the specific project now underway. The software is developed for a purpose different from the current project. Used in practice as an umbrella for COTS, GOTS, MOTS, OSS, freeware, shareware, trial software, demonstration software, legacy software, heritage software, and reuse software.

**Open-Source Software**. Software where its human-readable source code is made broadly available without cost under an OSS license, which provides conditions for use, reuse, modification/improvement, and redistribution; and often where the software development, management, and planning is done publicly, or easily observable by an individual or organization not previously connected with its open source project.

**Primary Mission Objectives**. Outcomes expected to be accomplished, which are closely associated with the reason the mission was proposed, funded, developed, and operated (e.g., objectives related to top-level requirements or their flow down).

**Process Asset Library**. A collection of process asset holdings that may be used by an organization or project. (Source: CMMI® for Systems Engineering/Software Engineering/Integrated Product and Process Development Supplier Sourcing.)

**Program**. A strategic investment by a Mission Directorate or Mission Support Office that has a defined architecture and technical approach, requirements, funding level, and a management structure that initiates and directs one or more projects. A program defines a strategic direction that the Agency has identified as critical.

**Project**. A specific investment having defined goals, objectives, requirements, life-cycle cost, a beginning, and an end. A project yields new or revised products or services that directly address NASA’s strategic needs. They may be performed wholly in-house; by Government, industry, academia partnerships; or through contracts with private industry.

**Risk Management**. An organized, systematic decision-making process that efficiently identifies, analyzes, plans, tracks, controls, communicates, and documents risk to increase the likelihood of achieving program/project goals. (Source: NPR 8715.3)

**Safety Critical**. A term describing any condition, event, operation, process, equipment, or system that could cause or lead to severe injury, major damage, or mission failure if performed or built improperly, or allowed to remain uncorrected. (Source NPR 8715.3)

**Scripts**. A sequence of automated computer commands embedded in a program that tells the program to execute a specific procedure (e.g., files with monitoring, logic, or commands used by software to automate a process or procedure).

**Simulation**. The imitation of the behavioral characteristics of a system, entity, phenomenon, or process. (Source: NASA-STD-7009) Only for the purpose of this document, the term "simulation" refers to only those simulations that are implemented in software.

**Shareware**. Software that is available free of charge and often distributed informally for evaluation, after which a fee may be requested for continued use.

**Software**. In this directive, “software” is defined as (1) computer programs, procedures and possibly associated documentation and data pertaining to the operation of a computer system *(IEEE 828-2012 IEEE Standard for Configuration Management in Systems and Software Engineering, 2.1)* (2) all or a part of the programs, procedures, rules, and associated documentation of an information processing system *(IEEE 828-2012 IEEE Standard for Configuration Management in Systems and Software Engineering, 2.1) (ISO/IEC 19770-5:2015 Information technology--IT asset management--Overview and vocabulary, 3.34)* (3) program or set of programs used to run a computer *(ISO/IEC 26514:2008 Systems and software engineering--requirements for designers and developers of user documentation, 4.46)* (4) all or part of the programs which process or support the processing of digital information *(ISO/IEC 19770-1:2017 Information technology -- IT asset management -- Part 1: IT asset management systems--Requirements, 3.49)* (5) part of a product that is the computer program or the set of computer programs *(ISO/IEC/IEEE 26513:2017 Systems and software engineering--Requirements for testers and reviewers of information for users, 3.34).* This definition applies to software developed by NASA, software developed for NASA, software maintained by or for NASA, COTS, GOTS, MOTS, OSS, reused software components, auto-generated code, embedded software, the software executed on processors embedded in programmable logic devices (see NASA-HDBK-4008), legacy, heritage, applications, freeware, shareware, trial or demonstration software, and open-source software components.

**Software Architecture**. The software architecture of a program or computing system is the structure or structures of the system, which comprise software components, the properties of those components, and the relationships between them. The term also refers to documentation of a system's software architecture. Documenting software architecture facilitates communication between stakeholders, documents early decisions about high-level design, and allows reuse of design components and patterns between projects.

**Software Assurance**. The planned and systematic set of activities that ensure that software life-cycle processes and products conform to requirements, standards, and procedures. For NASA, this includes the disciplines of Software Quality (functions of Software Quality Engineering, Software Quality Assurance, and Software Quality Control), Software Safety, Software Reliability, Mission Software Cybersecurity Assurance, Software Verification and Validation, and IV&V.

**Software Engineering**. The application of a systematic, disciplined, quantifiable approach to the development, operation, and maintenance of software, i.e., the application of engineering to software. (Source: ISO/IEC/IEEE 24765)

**Software Item.** Source code, object code, control code, control data, or a collection of these items.

**Software Maintenance.** (1) Totality of activities required to provide cost-effective support to a software system. (2) Entitlement of additional rights (such as additional functionality, upgrade, or support) for a previously granted software entitlement. (3) A set of services a Publisher can sell to a Customer for the ongoing development and delivery of software bug fixes and product upgrades.

**Software Peer Review and Inspection.** A visual examination of a software product to detect and identify software anomalies, including errors and deviations from standards and specifications. (Source: IEEE 1028). Refer to NASA-STD-8739.9 for guidelines for software peer reviews or inspections.

**Software Reuse.** Software Reuse. A software product developed for one use but having other uses or one developed specifically to be usable on multiple projects or in multiple roles on one project. Examples include, but are not limited to, COTS products, acquirer-furnished software products, software products in reuse libraries, and pre-existing developer software products

**Software Suppliers**. An organization or individual that enters into an agreement with the acquirer for the supply of a software product or service or individual or organization that enters into a contract with the acquirer for the supply of a software system, software product, or software service under the terms of the contract or an organization or part of an organization or individual that enters into an agreement with the application management organization for the supply of a software product or software service. Software Suppliers includes NASA in-house software development.

**Software Validation**. Confirmation that the product, as provided (or as it will be provided), fulfills its intended use. In other words, validation ensures that “you built the right thing.” (Source: IEEE 1012)

**Software Verification.** Confirmation that products properly reflect the requirements specified for them. In other words, verification ensures that “you built it right.” (Source: IEEE 1012)

**Static Analysis.** The process of evaluating a system or component based on its form, structure, content, or documentation. (Source: ISO/IEC/IEEE 24765)

**Subsystem**. A secondary or subordinate system within a larger system. (Source: ISO/IEC/IEEE 24765)

**System**. The combination of elements that function together to produce the capability required to meet a need. The elements include hardware, software, equipment, facilities, personnel, processes, and procedures needed for this purpose. (Source: NPR 7123.1)

**Tailoring**. The process used to adjust a prescribed requirement to accommodate the needs of a specific task or activity (e.g., program or project). Tailoring may result in changes, subtractions, or additions to a typical implementation of the requirement.

**Uncertainty**. (1) The estimated amount or percentage by which an observed or calculated value may differ from the true value. (2) A broad and general term used to describe an imperfect state of knowledge or a variability resulting from a variety of factors including, but not limited to, lack of knowledge, the applicability of information, physical variation, randomness or stochastic behavior, indeterminacy, judgment, and approximation. (Source: NPR 8000.4)

**Unit Test.** (1) Testing of individual routines and modules by the developer or an independent tester (ISO/IEC/IEEE 24765). (2) A test of individual programs or modules in order to ensure that there are no analysis or programming errors (ISO/IEC 2382-20). (3) Test of individual hardware or software units or groups of related units. (ISO/IEC/IEEE 24765)

**Validation**. (1) Confirmation, through the provision of objective evidence, that the requirements for a specific intended use or application have been fulfilled *(ISO/IEC 25000:2014 Systems and software Engineering--Systems and software product Quality Requirements and Evaluation (SQuaRE) -- Guide to SQuaRE, 4.41) (ISO/IEC/IEEE 12207:2017 Systems and software engineering--Software life cycle processes, 3.1.71) (ISO/IEC/IEEE 15288:2015 Systems and software engineering--System life cycle processes, 4.1.53) (ISO/IEC TS 24748-1:2016 Systems and software engineering--Life cycle management--Part 1: Guide for life cycle management, 2.61) (2) process of providing evidence that the system, software, or hardware and its associated products satisfy requirements allocated to it at the end of each life-cycle activity, solve the right problem (e.g., correctly model physical laws, implement business rules, and use the proper system assumptions), and satisfy intended use and user needs (IEEE 1012-2017 IEEE Standard for System, Software, and Hardware Verification and Validation, 3.1.35) (3) the assurance that a product, service, or system meets the needs of the customer and other identified stakeholders. It often involves acceptance and suitability with external customers. (A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK(R) Guide) -- Fifth Edition) (4) process of evaluating a system or component during or at the end of the development process to determine whether it satisfies specified requirements (IEEE 1012-2017 IEEE Standard for System, Software, and Hardware Verification and Validation, 3.1) Note: Validation in a system life-cycle context is the set of activities ensuring and gaining confidence that a system is able to accomplish its intended use, goals, and objectives. The right system has been built. Validation demonstrates that the system can be used by the users for their specific tasks. "Validated" is used to designate the corresponding status. [ISO 9000:2005] Multiple validations can be carried out if there are different intended uses.*

  

# Appendix B. Acronyms

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| CAD/CAM | Computer-Aided Design/and Computer-Aided Manufacturing |
| CE | Chief Engineer |
| CHMO | Chief Health and Medical Officer |
| CIO | Chief Information Officer |
| CMMI® | Capability Maturity Model® Integration |
| CMMI-DEV | Capability Maturity Model® Integration® (CMMI®) for Development |
| CMU | Carnegie Mellon University |
| CO | Contracting Officer |
| COR | Contracting Officer Representative |
| COTS | Commercial-Off-the-Shelf |
| CSCI | Computer Software Configuration Item |
| CSMA | Chief, Safety and Mission Assurance |
| EDL | Entry, Descent, and Landing |
| ETA | Engineering Technical Authority |
| EVA | Extra Vehicular Activity |
| FAR | Federal Acquisition Regulations |
| FFRDC | Federally Funded Research and Development Center |
| GOTS | Government-Off-the-Shelf |
| HDBK | Handbook |
| IEEE | Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers |
| IPEP | IV&V Project Execution Plan |
| IT | Information Technology |
| IV&V | Independent Verification and Validation |
| JPL | Jet Propulsion Laboratory |
| KSLOC | Kilo/Thousand Source Lines of Code |
| MOTS | Modified Off-the-Shelf |
| NASA | National Aeronautics and Space Administration |
| NPD | NASA Policy Directive |
| NPR | NASA Procedural Requirements |
| OCE | Office of the Chief Engineer |
| OCHMO | Office of Chief Health and Medical Officer |
| OCIO | Office of Chief Information Officer |
| OSMA | Office of Safety and Mission Assurance |
| OSS | Open-Source Software |
| PLD | Programmable Logic Devices |
| SAISO | Senior Agency Information Security Officer |
| SCM | Software Configuration Management |
| SEI | Software Engineering Institute |
| SMA | Safety and Mission Assurance |
| SOW | Statement of Work |
| SPAN | Software Process Across NASA |
| SWE | Software Engineering |
| WBS | Work Breakdown Structure |

  

# Appendix C. Requirements Mapping Matrix

C.1 The rationale for the requirements is contained in the NASA-HDBK-2203. Programs/Projects may substitute a matrix that documents their mapping with their particular Center's implementation of NPR 7150.2, if applicable. See NASA-HDBK-2203 for requirements mapping matrices organized by class, tailoring field for each requirement, tailoring rationale, and approval signature lines.

C.2 The Requirements Mapping Matrix documents the program/project's mappings or intent to comply with the requirements of this NPR or justification for tailoring. The matrix lists:

a. The section reference.

b. The unique requirement identifier.

c. The NPR 7150.2 requirement statement.

d. The Authority Level responsible for assessing a project’s requirements mapping matrices and any requested tailoring from requirements in this NPR. The CIO, or the designee, has institutional authority on all Class F software projects and has joint responsibility on the cybersecurity requirements in section 3.11.

e. The applicability of the requirements in this NPR to specific systems and subsystems within the Agency’s investment areas, programs, and projects is determined through the use of the NASA-wide definition of software classes.

## C.3 Tailoring Guidance

X - Indicates an invoked requirement by this NPR consistent with Software Classification (ref. SWE-139). May be tailored with Technical Authority approval (ref. Chapter 2.2).

Blank - Optional/Not invoked by this NPR.

Center - Center Director or the Center Director’s designated Engineering Technical Authority, the Center Director's designated SMA Technical Authority, and the CHMO designated for Health and Medical Technical Authority. The CIO, or the designee, has institutional authority on all Class F software projects and has joint responsibility on the cybersecurity requirements in section 3.11 per the direction in the Requirements Mapping Matrix.

CIO - The OCIO, or the designee Center CIO, has institutional authority on all Class F software projects and has joint responsibility on the cybersecurity requirements in section 3.11 per the direction in the Requirements Mapping Matrix.

Each requirement marked 'X' for the project's software classification(s) should be addressed in the Requirements Mapping Matrix. All requirements can be tailored per the guidance in this directive. Requirements that are not applicable to a given project, such as the IV&V requirements, should be tailored out in the Requirements Mapping Matrix with justification.

**Table 2. Requirements Mapping Matrix**

| Section | SWE # | Requirement Text | Class A - E Authority | A | B | C | D | E |  | Class F Authority | F |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 3.0 |  | **Software Management Requirements** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.1 |  | **Software Life Cycle Planning** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.1.2 | 033 | The project manager shall assess options for software acquisition versus development. | Center | X | X | X | X | X |  | CIO | X |
| 3.1.3 | 013 | The project manager shall develop, maintain, and execute software plans that cover the entire software life cycle and, as a minimum, address the requirements of this directive with approved tailoring. | Center | X | X | X | X | X |  | CIO | X |
| 3.1.4 | 024 | The project manager shall track the actual results and performance of software activities against the software plans.a. Corrective actions are taken, recorded, and managed to closure.  b. Including changes to commitments (e.g., software plans) that have been agreed to by the affected groups and individuals. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.1.5 | 034 | The project manager shall define and document the acceptance criteria for the software. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.1.6 | 036 | The project manager shall establish and maintain the software processes, software documentation plans, list of developed electronic products, deliverables, and list of tasks for the software development that are required for the project’s software developers, as well as the action required (e.g., approval, review) of the Government upon receipt of each of the deliverables. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.1.7 | 037 | The project manager shall define and document the milestones at which the software developer(s) progress will be reviewed and audited. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.1.8 | 039 | The project manager shall require the software developer(s) to periodically report status and provide insight into software development and test activities; at a minimum, the software developer(s) will be required to allow the project manager and software assurance personnel to: a. Monitor product integration. b. Review the verification activities to ensure adequacy. c. Review trades studies and source data. d. Audit the software development processes and practices. e. Participate in software reviews and technical interchange meetings. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.1.9 | 040 | The project manager shall require the software developer(s) to provide NASA with software products, traceability, software change tracking information and nonconformances, in electronic format, including software development and management metrics. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.1.10 | 042 | The project manager shall require the software developer(s) to provide NASA with electronic access to the source code developed for the project in a modifiable format. | Center | X | X | X | X | X |  | CIO | X |
| 3.1.11 | 139 | The project manager shall comply with the requirements in this NPR that are marked with an ”X” in Appendix C consistent with their software classification. | Center | X | X | X | X | X |  | CIO | X |
| 3.1.12 | 121 | Where approved, the project manager shall document and reflect the tailored requirement in the plans or procedures controlling the development, acquisition, and deployment of the affected software. | Center | X | X | X | X | X |  | CIO | X |
| 3.1.13 | 125 | Each project manager with software components shall maintain a requirements mapping matrix or multiple requirements mapping matrices against requirements in this NPR, including those delegated to other parties or accomplished by contract vehicles or Space Act Agreements. | Center | X | X | X | X | X |  | CIO | X |
| 3.1.14 | 027 | The project manager shall satisfy the following conditions when a COTS, GOTS, MOTS, or reused software component is acquired or used:  a. The requirements to be met by the software component are identified.  b. The software component includes documentation to fulfill its intended purpose (e.g., usage instructions).  c. Proprietary rights, usage rights, ownership, warranty, licensing rights, and transfer rights have been addressed.  d. Future support for the software product is planned and adequate for project needs. e. The software component is verified and validated to the same level required to accept a similar developed software component for its intended use. f. The project has a plan to perform periodic assessments of vendor reported defects to ensure the defects do not impact the selected software components. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.2 |  | **Software Cost Estimation** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.2.1 | 015 | To better estimate the cost of development, the project manager shall establish, document, and maintain: a. Two cost estimate models and associated cost parameters for all Class A and B software projects that have an estimated project cost of $2 million or more.  b. One software cost estimate model and associated cost parameter(s) for all Class A and Class B software projects that have an estimated project cost of less than $2 million. c. One software cost estimate model and associated cost parameter(s) for all C and D software projects. d. One software cost estimate model and associated cost parameter(s) for all Class F software projects. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |
| 3.2.2 | 151 | The project manager’s software cost estimate(s) shall satisfy the following conditions: a. Covers the entire software life cycle. b. Is based on selected project attributes (e.g., assessment of the size, functionality, complexity, criticality, reuse code, modified code, and risk of the software processes and products). c. Is based on the cost implications of the technology to be used and the required maturation of that technology. d. Incorporates risk and uncertainty, including cybersecurity. e. Includes the cost of the required software assurance support. f. Includes other direct costs. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.2.3 | 174 | The project manager shall submit software planning parameters, including size and effort estimates, milestones, and characteristics, to the Center measurement repository at the conclusion of major milestones. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |
| 3.3 |  | **Software Schedules** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.3.1 | 016 | The project manager shall document and maintain a software schedule that satisfies the following conditions:  a. Coordinates with the overall project schedule. b. Documents the interactions of milestones and deliverables between software, hardware, operations, and the rest of the system.  c. Reflects the critical dependencies for software development activities. d. Identifies and accounts for dependencies with other projects and cross-program dependencies. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.3.2 | 018 | The project manager shall regularly hold reviews of software schedule activities, metrics, status, and results with the project stakeholders and track issues to resolution. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.3.3 | 046 | The project manager shall require the software developer(s) to provide a software schedule for the project's review and schedule updates as requested. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.4 |  | **Software Training** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.4.1 | 017 | The project manager shall plan, track, and ensure project specific software training for project personnel. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.5 |  | Software Classification Assessments |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.5.1 | 020 | The project manager shall classify each system and subsystem containing software in accordance with the highest applicable software classification definitions for Classes A, B, C, D, E, and F software in Appendix D. | Center | X | X | X | X | X |  | CIO | X |
| 3.5.2 | 176 | The project manager shall maintain records of each software classification determination, each software Requirements Mapping Matrix, and the results of each software independent classification assessments for the life of the project. | Center | X | X | X | X | X |  | CIO | X |
| 3.6 |  | Software Assurance and Software Independent Verification & Validation |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.6.1 | 022 | The project manager shall plan and implement software assurance per NASA-STD-8739.8. | Center | X | X | X | X | X |  |  |  |
| 3.6.2 | 141 | For projects reaching Key Decision Point A, the program manager shall ensure that software IV&V is performed on the following categories of projects: a. Category 1 projects as defined in NPR 7120.5. b. Category 2 projects as defined in NPR 7120.5 that have Class A or Class B payload risk classification per NPR 8705.4. c. Projects selected explicitly by the NASA Chief of the Office of Safety and Mission Assurance to have software IV&V. | HQ OSMA | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.6.3 | 131 | If software IV&V is performed on a project, the project manager shall ensure an IPEP is developed, negotiated, approved, maintained, and executed. | Center | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.6.4 | 178 | If software IV&V is performed on a project, the project manager shall ensure that IV&V is provided access to development artifacts, products, source code, and data required to perform the IV&V analysis efficiently and effectively. | Center | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.6.5 | 179 | If software IV&V is performed on a project, the project manager shall provide responses to IV&V submitted issues and risks, and track these issues and risks to closure. | Center | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.7 |  | Safety-critical Software |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.7.1 | 205 | The project manager, in conjunction with the SMA organization, shall determine if each software component is considered to be safety-critical per the criteria defined in NASA-STD-8739.8. | Center | X | X | X | X | X |  |  |  |
| 3.7.2 | 023 | If a project has safety-critical software, the project manager shall implement the safety-critical software requirements contained in NASA-STD-8739.8. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |
| 3.7.3 | 134 | If a project has safety-critical software or mission-critical software, the project manager shall implement the following items in the software:  a. The software is initialized, at first start and restarts, to a known safe state. b. The software safely transitions between all predefined known states. c. Termination performed by software of functions is performed to a known safe state. d. Operator overrides of software functions require at least two independent actions by an operator. e. Software rejects commands received out of sequence when execution of those commands out of sequence can cause a hazard. f. The software detects inadvertent memory modification and recovers to a known safe state. g. The software performs integrity checks on inputs and outputs to/from the software system. h. The software performs prerequisite checks prior to the execution of safety-critical software commands. i. No single software event or action is allowed to initiate an identified hazard. j. The software responds to an off-nominal condition within the time needed to prevent a hazardous event. k. The software provides error handling.  l. The software can place the system into a safe state. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |
| 3.8 |  | Automatic Generation of Software Source Code |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.8.1 | 146 | The project manager shall define the approach to the automatic generation of software source code including: a. Validation and verification of auto-generation tools. b. Configuration management of the auto-generation tools and associated data. c. Description of the limits and the allowable scope for the use of the auto-generated software. d. Verification and validation of auto-generated source code using the same software standards and processes as hand-generated code. e. Monitoring the actual use of auto-generated source code compared to the planned use. f. Policies and procedures for making manual changes to auto-generated source code. g. Configuration management of the input to the auto-generation tool, the output of the auto-generation tool, and modifications made to the output of the auto-generation tools. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.8.2 | 206 | The project manager shall require the software developers and suppliers to provide NASA with electronic access to the models, simulations, and associated data used as inputs for auto-generation of software. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.9 |  | **Software Development Processes and Practices** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.9.3 | 032 | The project manager shall acquire, develop, and maintain software from an organization with a non-expired CMMI-DEV rating as measured by a CMMI Institute Certified Lead Appraiser as follows: a. For Class A software: CMMI-DEV Maturity Level 3 Rating or higher for software. b. For Class B software: CMMI-DEV Maturity Level 2 Rating or higher for software. | HQ OCE | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.10 |  | **Software Reuse** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.10.1 | 147 | The project manager shall specify reusability requirements that apply to its software development activities to enable future reuse of the software, including the models, simulations, and associated data used as inputs for auto-generation of software, for United States Government purposes. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.10.2 | 148 | The project manager shall evaluate software for potential reuse by other projects across NASA and contribute reuse candidates to the NASA Internal Sharing and Reuse Software systems. However, if the project manager is a contractor, then a civil servant must pre-approve all such software contributions; all software contributions should include, at a minimum, the following information: a. Software Title. b. Software Description. c. The Civil Servant Software Technical Point of Contact for the software product. d. The language or languages used to develop the software. e. Any third party code contained therein and the record of the requisite license or permission received from the third party permitting the Government’s use, if applicable. | Center | X | X | X | X | X |  | CIO | X |
| 3.11 |  | **Software Cybersecurity** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.11.2 | 156 | The project manager shall perform a software cybersecurity assessment on the software components per the Agency security policies and the project requirements, including risks posed by the use of COTS, GOTS, MOTS, OSS, or reused software components. | Center and Center CIO | X | X | X | X | X |  | CIO | X |
| 3.11.3 | 154 | The project manager shall identify cybersecurity risks, along with their mitigations, in flight and ground software systems and plan the mitigations for these systems. | Center and Center CIO | X | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |
| 3.11.4 | 157 | The project manager shall implement protections for software systems with communications capabilities against unauthorized access. | Center and Center CIO | X | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |
| 3.11.5 | 158 | The project manager shall ensure that space flight software systems are assessed for possible cybersecurity vulnerabilities and weaknesses. | Center and Center CIO | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.11.6 | 155 | The project manager shall address identified cybersecurity vulnerabilities and weaknesses. | Center and Center CIO | X | X | X | X | X |  | CIO | X |
| 3.11.7 | 159 | The project manager shall test the software and record test results for the required software cybersecurity mitigation implementations identified from the security vulnerabilities and security weaknesses analysis. | Center and Center CIO | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.11.8 | 207 | The project manager shall identify, record, and implement secure coding practices. | Center and Center CIO | X | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |
| 3.11.9 | 185 | The project manager shall verify that the software code meets the project’s secure coding standard by using the results from static analysis tool(s). | Center and Center CIO | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 3.12 |  | Software Bi-Directional Traceability |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3.12.1 | 052 | The project manager shall perform, record, and maintain bi-directional traceability between the following software elements: (See Table in 3.12.1) | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.0 |  | Software Engineering (Life-Cycle) Requirements |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.1 |  | Software Requirements |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.1.2 | 050 | The project manager shall establish, capture, record, approve, and maintain software requirements, including requirements for COTS, GOTS, MOTS, OSS, or reused software components, as part of the technical specification. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.1.3 | 051 | The project manager shall perform software requirements analysis based on flowed-down and derived requirements from the top-level systems engineering requirements, safety and reliability analyses, and the hardware specifications and design. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.1.4 | 184 | The project manager shall include software related safety constraints, controls, mitigations and assumptions between the hardware, operator, and software in the software requirements documentation. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.1.5 | 053 | The project manager shall track and manage changes to the software requirements. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.1.6 | 054 | The project manager shall identify, initiate corrective actions, and track until closure inconsistencies among requirements, project plans, and software products. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.1.7 | 055 | The project manager shall perform requirements validation to ensure that the software will perform as intended in the customer environment. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.2 |  | Software Architecture |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.2.3 | 057 | The project manager shall transform the requirements for the software into a recorded software architecture. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.2.4 | 143 | The project manager shall perform a software architecture review on the following categories of projects: a. Category 1 Projects as defined in NPR 7120.5. b. Category 2 Projects as defined in NPR 7120.5 that have Class A or Class B payload risk classification per NPR 8705.4. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.3 |  | **Software Design** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.3.2 | 058 | The project manager shall develop, record, and maintain a software design based on the software architectural design that describes the lower-level units so that they can be coded, compiled, and tested. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.4 |  | Software Implementation |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.4.2 | 060 | The project manager shall implement the software design into software code. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.4.3 | 061 | The project manager shall select and adhere to software coding methods, standards, and criteria. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.4.4 | 135 | The project manager shall use static analysis tools to analyze the code during the development and testing phases to detect defects, software security, and coding errors. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.4.5 | 062 | The project manager shall unit test the software code. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.4.6 | 186 | The project manager shall assure that the unit test results are repeatable. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.4.7 | 063 | The project manager shall provide a software version description for each software release. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.4.8 | 136 | The project manager shall validate and accredit the software tool(s) required to develop or maintain software. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.5 |  | **Software Testing** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.5.2 | 065 | The project manager shall establish and maintain: a. Software test plan(s). b. Software test procedure(s). c. Software test report(s). | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.5.3 | 066 | The project manager shall test the software against its requirements. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.5.4 | 187 | The project manager shall place software items under configuration management prior to testing. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.5.5 | 068 | The project manager shall evaluate test results and record the evaluation. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.5.6 | 070 | The project manager shall use validated and accredited software models, simulations, and analysis tools required to perform qualification of flight software or flight equipment. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.5.7 | 071 | The project manager shall update the software test plan(s) and the software test procedure(s) to be consistent with software requirements. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.5.8 | 073 | The project manager shall validate the software system on the targeted platform or high-fidelity simulation. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.5.9 | 189 | The project manager shall ensure that the code coverage measurements for the software are selected, implemented, tracked, recorded, and reported. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |
| 4.5.10 | 190 | The project manager shall verify code coverage is measured by analysis of the results of the execution of tests. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.5.11 | 191 | The project manager shall plan and conduct software regression testing to demonstrate that defects have not been introduced into previously integrated or tested software and have not produced a security vulnerability. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.5.12 | 192 | The project manager shall verify through test the software requirements that trace to a hazardous event, cause, or mitigation technique. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |
| 4.5.13 | 193 | The project manager shall develop acceptance tests for loaded or uplinked data, rules, and code that affects software and software system behavior. | Center | X | X |  |  |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.5.14 | 211 | The project manager shall test embedded COTS, GOTS, MOTS, OSS, or reused software components to the same level required to accept a custom developed software component for its intended use. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.6 |  | Software Operations, Maintenance, and Retirement |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4.6.2 | 075 | The project manager shall plan and implement software operations, maintenance, and retirement activities. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.6.3 | 077 | The project manager shall complete and deliver the software product to the customer with appropriate records, including as-built records, to support the operations and maintenance phase of the software’s life cycle. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.6.4 | 194 | The project manager shall complete, prior to delivery, verification that all software requirements identified for this delivery have been met, that all approved changes have been implemented and that all defects designated for resolution prior to delivery have been resolved. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.6.5 | 195 | The project manager shall maintain the software using standards and processes per the applicable software classification throughout the maintenance phase. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 4.6.6 | 196 | The project manager shall identify the records and software tools to be archived, the location of the archive, and procedures for access to the products for software retirement or disposal. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 5.0 |  | Supporting Software Life-Cycle Requirements |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 5.1 |  | Software Configuration Management |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 5.1.2 | 079 | The project manager shall develop a software configuration management plan that describes the functions, responsibilities, and authority for the implementation of software configuration management for the project. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 5.1.3 | 080 | The project manager shall track and evaluate changes to software products. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 5.1.4 | 081 | The project manager shall identify the software configuration items (e.g., software records, code, data, tools, models, scripts) and their versions to be controlled for the project. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 5.1.5 | 082 | The project manager shall establish and implement procedures to: a. Designate the levels of control through which each identified software configuration item is required to pass. b. Identify the persons or groups with authority to authorize changes. c. Identify the persons or groups to make changes at each level. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 5.1.6 | 083 | The project manager shall prepare and maintain records of the configuration status of software configuration items. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 5.1.7 | 084 | The project manager shall perform software configuration audits to determine the correct version of the software configuration items and verify that they conform to the records that define them. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 5.1.8 | 085 | The project manager shall establish and implement procedures for the storage, handling, delivery, release, and maintenance of deliverable software products. | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 5.1.9 | 045 | The project manager shall participate in any joint NASA/developer audits. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  | CIO | X |
| 5.2 |  | **Software Risk Management** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 5.2.1 | 086 | The project manager shall record, analyze, plan, track, control, and communicate all of the software risks and mitigation plans. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  | CIO | X |
| 5.3 |  | **Software Peer Reviews/Inspections** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 5.3.2 | 087 | The project manager shall perform and report the results of software peer reviews or software inspections for: a. Software requirements.  b. Software plans. c. Any design items that the project identified for software peer review or software inspections according to the software development plans. d. Software code as defined in the software and or project plans. e. Software test procedures. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  | CIO | X |
| 5.3.3 | 088 | The project manager shall, for each planned software peer review or software inspection: a. Use a checklist or formal reading technique (e.g., perspective based reading) to evaluate the work products.  b. Use established readiness and completion criteria.  c. Track actions identified in the reviews until they are resolved. d. Identify the required participants. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 5.3.4 | 089 | The project manager shall, for each planned software peer review or software inspection, record necessary measurements. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  | CIO | X |
| 5.4 |  | Software Measurements |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 5.4.2 | 090 | The project manager shall establish, record, maintain, report, and utilize software management and technical measurements. | Center | X | X | X |  |  | |  | |
| 5.4.3 | 093 | The project manager shall analyze software measurement data collected using documented project-specified and Center/organizational analysis procedures. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 5.4.4 | 094 | The project manager shall provide access to the software measurement data, measurement analyses, and software development status as requested to the sponsoring Mission Directorate, the NASA Chief Engineer, the Center Technical Authorities, and Headquarters SMA. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 5.4.5 | 199 | The project manager shall monitor measures to ensure the software will meet or exceed performance and functionality requirements, including satisfying constraints. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 5.4.6 | 200 | The project manager shall collect, track, and report software requirements volatility metrics. | Center | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 5.5 |  | Software Non-conformance or Defect Management |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 5.5.1 | 201 | The project manager shall track and maintain software non-conformances (including defects in tools and appropriate ground software). | Center | X | X | X | X |  |  | CIO | X |
| 5.5.2 | 202 | The project manager shall define and implement clear software severity levels for all software non-conformances (including tools, COTS, GOTS, MOTS, OSS, reused software components, and applicable ground systems). | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  | CIO | X |
| 5.5.3 | 203 | The project manager shall implement mandatory assessments of reported non-conformances for all COTS, GOTS, MOTS, OSS, or reused software components. | Center | X | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |
| 5.5.4 | 204 | The project manager shall implement process assessments for all high severity software non-conformances (closed loop process). | Center | X | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |

  

# Appendix D. Software Classifications

D.1 The applicability of requirements in this directive to specific systems and subsystems containing software is determined through the use of the NASA-wide software classification structure. These definitions are based on: (1) usage of the software with or within a NASA system, (2) criticality of the system to NASA’s major programs and projects, (3) extent to which humans depend upon the system, (4) developmental and operational complexity, and (5) extent of the Agency’s investment. Classes A through E cover engineering-related software. Class F cover Business and Information Technology Infrastructure Software. Using the Requirements Mapping Matrix, the number of applicable requirements and their associated rigor are scaled back for lower software classes. Situations in which a project contains separate systems and subsystems having different software classes are not uncommon.

D.2 For a given system or subsystem, software is expected to be uniquely defined within a single class. If more than one software class appears to apply, then assign the higher of the classes to the system/subsystem. Any potential discrepancies in classifying software within Classes A through-- E are to be resolved using the definitions and the five underlying factors listed in the previous paragraph. Engineering and SMA provide dual Technical Authority chains for resolving classification issues. The NASA Chief Engineer is the ultimate Technical Authority for software classification disputes concerning definitions in this NPR.

**Class A: Human Rated Space Software Systems**

**a. Definition:**

1. Human Space Flight Software Systems\*: Ground and flight software systems developed or operated by or for NASA needed to perform a primary mission objective of human space flight and directly interact with human space flight systems. Limited to software required to perform "vehicle, crew, or primary mission function," as defined by software that is:

(a) Required to operate the vehicle or space asset (e.g., spacesuit, rover, or outpost), including commanding of the vehicle or asset.

(b) Required to sustain a safe, habitable 1 environment for the crew.

---

1 Current standards that address habitability and environmental health, including atmospheric composition and pressure, air, and water quality and monitoring, acceleration, acoustics, vibration, radiation, thermal environment, combined environmental effects, and human factors, are documented in NASA-Standard-3001 Volume 1, Space Flight Human-System Standard: Crew Health, NASA-Standard-3001 Volume 2, Space Flight Human-System Standard: Human Factors, Habitability, and Environmental Health, FAA HFDS - Human Factors Design Standard.

---

(c) Required to achieve the primary mission objectives, or

(d) Required to directly prepare resources (e.g., data, fuel, power) that are consumed by the above functions.

\*Includes software involving launch, on-orbit, in space, surface operations, entry, descent, and landing.

**b. Examples:**

Examples of Class A software (human-rated space flight) include, but are not limited to, the mission phases listed below.

1. During Launch:   
Abort modes and selection; separation control; range safety; crew interface (display and controls); crew escape; critical systems monitoring and control; guidance, navigation, and control; and communication and tracking.

2. On-Orbit/In Space:   
Extravehicular activity (EVA); control of electrical power; payload control (including suppression of hazardous satellite and device commands); critical systems monitoring and control; guidance, navigation, and control; life support systems; crew escape; rendezvous and docking; failure detection; isolation and recovery; communication and tracking; and mission operations.

3. On Ground:  
Pre-launch and launch operations; Mission Control Center (and Launch Control Center) front-end processors; spacecraft commanding; vehicle processing operations; re-entry operations; flight dynamics simulators used for ascent abort calls; and launch and flight controller stations for human-crewed spaceflight.

4. Entry, Descent, and Landing (EDL):  
Command and control; aero-surface control; power; thermal; fault protection; and communication and tracking.

5. Surface Operations:   
Planet/lunar surface EVA and communication and tracking.

**c. Exclusions:**

Class A does not include:

1. Software that happens to fly in space but is superfluous to mission objectives (e.g., software contained in an iPod carried on board by an astronaut for personal use); or

2. Software that exclusively supports aeronautics, research and technology, and science conducted without space flight applications; or

3. Systems (e.g., simulators, emulators, stimulators, facilities) used to test Class A systems containing software in a development environment.

**Class B: Non-Human Space Rated Software Systems or Large Scale Aeronautics Vehicles**

**a. Definitions:**

1. Space Systems involve flight and ground software that should perform reliably to accomplish primary mission objectives or major function(s) in non-human space rated systems. Included is software involving launch, on orbit, in space, surface operations, entry, descent, and landing. These systems are limited to software that is:

(a) Required to operate the vehicle or space asset (e.g., orbiter, lander, probe, flyby spacecraft, rover, launch vehicle, or primary instrument) such as commanding of the vehicle or asset;

(b) Required to achieve the primary mission objectives; or

(c) Required to directly prepare resources (data, fuel, power) that are consumed by the above functions.

2. Airborne Vehicles include large scale1 aeronautic vehicles unique to NASA in which the software:

(a) Is integral to the control of an airborne vehicle;

(b) Monitors and controls the cabin environment; or

(c) Monitors and controls the vehicle’s emergency systems.

This definition includes software for vehicles classified as “test,” “experimental,” or “demonstration” that meets the above definition for Class B software. Also included are systems in a test or demonstration where the software’s known and scheduled intended use is to be part of a Class A or B software system.

1 Large-scale (life-cycle cost exceeding $250M) fully integrated technology development system – see NPR 7120.8.

**b. Examples:**

Examples of Class B software include, but are not limited to:

1. Space, Launch, Ground, EDL, and Surface Systems:
Propulsion systems; power systems; guidance navigation and control; fault protection; thermal systems; command and control ground systems; planetary/lunar surface operations; hazard prevention; primary instruments; science sequencing engine; simulations that create operational EDL parameters; subsystems that could cause the loss of science return from multiple instruments; flight dynamics and related data; and launch and flight controller stations for non-human spaceflight.

2. Aeronautics Vehicles (Large Scale NASA Unique):
Guidance, navigation, and control; flight management systems; autopilot; propulsion systems; power systems; emergency systems (e.g., fire suppression systems, emergency egress systems, emergency oxygen supply systems, traffic/ground collision avoidance system); and cabin pressure and temperature control.

**c. Exclusions:**

Class B does not include:

1. Software that exclusively supports non-primary instruments on non-human space rated systems (e.g., low-cost non-primary university supplied instruments); or

2. Systems (e.g., simulators emulators, stimulators, facilities) used in testing Class B systems containing software in a development environment; or

3. Software for NASA Class D payloads, as defined in NPR 8705.4.

**Class C: Mission Support Software or Aeronautic Vehicles, or Major Engineering/Research Facility Software**

**a. Definitions:**

1. Space Systems include the following types of software:

(a) Flight or ground software necessary for the science return from a single (non-primary) instrument;

(b) Flight or ground software used to analyze or process mission data;

(c) Other software for which a defect could adversely impact the attainment of some secondary mission objectives or cause operational problems;

(d) Software used for the testing of space assets;

(e) Software used to verify system requirements of space assets by analysis; or

(f) Software for space flight operations not covered by Class A or B software.

2. Airborne Vehicles include systems for non-large scale aeronautic vehicles in which the software:

(a) Is integral to the control of an airborne vehicle;

(b) Monitors and controls the cabin environment; or

(c) Monitors and controls the vehicle’s emergency system.

Also included are systems on an airborne vehicle (including large-scale vehicles) that acquire, store, or transmit the official record copy of flight or test data.

3. Major Engineering/Research Facility is systems that operate a major facility for research, development, test, or evaluation (e.g., facility controls and monitoring, systems that operate facility-owned instruments, apparatus, and data acquisition equipment).

4. Sounding Rockets and Sounding Rocket payloads.

5. Software for NASA Class D payloads, as defined in NPR 8705.4.

**b. Examples:**

Examples of Class C software include, but are not limited to:

1. Space Systems:   
Software that supports prelaunch integration and test; mission data processing and analysis; analysis software used in trend analysis and calibration of flight engineering parameters; primary/major science data collection storage and distribution systems (e.g., Distributed Active Archive Centers); simulators, emulators, stimulators, or facilities used to test Class A, B, or C software in development; integration and test environments; software used to verify system-level requirements associated with Class A, B, or C software by analysis (e.g., guidance, navigation, and control system performance verification by analysis); simulators used for mission training; software employed by network operations and control (which is redundant with systems used at tracking complexes); command and control of non-primary instruments; ground mission support software used for secondary mission objectives, real-time analysis, and planning (e.g., monitoring, consumables analysis, mission planning); CubeSat mission software; SmallSat mission software; sounding rocket software and sounding rocket experiments or payload software; and all software on NASA Class D payloads, as defined in NPR 8705.4 to examples of Class C software.

2. Aeronautics Vehicles:  
Guidance, navigation, and control; flight management systems; autopilot; propulsion systems; power systems; emergency systems (e.g., fire suppression systems, emergency egress systems, emergency oxygen supply systems, traffic/ground collision avoidance system); cabin pressure and temperature control; in-flight telescope control software; aviation data integration systems; automated flight planning systems and primary/major science data collection storage and distribution systems (e.g., Distributed Active Archive Centers); sounding rockets and sounding rocket experiments or payload software; flight software for free-flying unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in public airspace or over controlled ranges; Balloon Flight software and balloon flight experiment software, and all software on NASA Class D pay loads, as defined in NPR 8705.4.

3. Major Engineering/Research Facility:   
Major Center facilities; data acquisition and control systems for wind tunnels, vacuum chambers, and rocket engine test stands; ground-based software used to operate a major facility telescope; and major aeronautic applications facilities (e.g., air traffic management systems; high fidelity motion based simulators).

**c. Exclusions:**

Class C does not include:

Systems unique to research, development, test, or evaluation activities in a major engineering/research facility or airborne vehicle in which the system is not part of the facility or vehicle and does not impact the operation of the facility or vehicle.

**Class D: Basic Science/Engineering Design and Research and Technology Software**

**a. Definitions:**

1. Basic Science/Engineering Design includes:

(a) Ground software that performs secondary science data analysis;

(b) Ground software tools that support engineering development;

(c) Ground software or software tools used for informal testing of software systems;

(d) Ground software tools that support mission planning or formulation;

(e) Ground software that operates a research, development, test, or evaluation laboratory (i.e., not a major engineering/research facility); or

(f) Ground software that provides decision support for non-mission critical situations.

2. Airborne Vehicle Systems include:

(a) Software whose anomalous behavior would cause or contribute to a failure of system function resulting in a minor failure condition for the airborne vehicle (e.g., DO-178B, “Class D”);

(b) Software whose anomalous behavior would cause or contribute to a failure of system function with no effect on airborne vehicle operational capability or pilot workload (e.g., DO-178B, “Class E”); or

(c) Ground software tools that perform research associated with airborne vehicles or systems.

3. Major Engineering/Research Facility related software includes research software that executes in a major engineering/research facility but is independent of the operation of the facility.

**b. Examples:**

Examples of Class D software include, but are not limited to:

1. Basic Science and Engineering Design:

Engineering design and modeling tools (e.g., computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing (CAD/CAM), thermal/structural analysis tools); project assurance databases (e.g., problem reporting, analysis, and corrective action system, requirements management databases); propulsion integrated design tools; integrated build management systems; inventory management tools; probabilistic engineering analysis tools; test stand data analysis tools; test stand engineering support tools; experimental flight displays evaluated in a flight simulator; forecasts and assimilated data products; and tools used to develop design reference missions to support early mission planning.

2. Airborne Vehicles:

Software tools for designing advanced human-automation systems; experimental synthetic-vision display; and cloud-aerosol light detection and ranging installed on an aeronautics vehicle; flight software for physically constrained UAVs such as UAVs on tethers, within cages, or used in indoor labs; and experimental UAV payloads with minor consequences of failure.

**c. Exclusions:**

Class D does not include:

1. Software that can impact primary or secondary mission objectives or cause loss of data that is generated by space systems;

2. Software that operates a major engineering/research facility;

3. Software that operates an airborne vehicle; or

4. Flight software (i.e., software that meets the flight portions of Class A, B, or C Software Classifications).

**Class E: Design Concept, Research, Technology, and General Purpose Software**

**a. Definitions:**

1. Software developed to explore a design concept or hypothesis but not used to make decisions for an operational Class A, B, or C system or to-be-built Class A, B, or C system.

2. Software used to perform minor analyses of science or experimental data. Class E software cannot be safety-critical software. If the software is classified as safety-critical software, then it has to be classified as Class D or higher.

3. A defect in Class E software may affect the productivity of a single user or small group of users but generally will not affect mission objectives or system safety.

4. Class E software runs in a general-purpose computing environment or a board top environment. Class E software does not support ground tests, flight tests, or operations.

**b. Examples:**

Examples of Class E software include, but are not limited to, parametric models to estimate performance or other attributes of design concepts; software to explore correlations between data sets; line of code counters; file format converters; and document template builders. Class E can include prototypes of flight and ground systems, developed at minimal cost, in the spirit of “exploring a design concept.” Once the design concept is demonstrated, and a program agrees to incorporate it for flight or ground operational use, or for an in-flight test of the technology, then the software should be upgraded to its appropriate classification, based on the operational (or in-flight test) use case. Class E software includes, but is not limited to, software such as word processing applications, spreadsheet applications, and presentation applications.

**c. Exclusions:**

Class E does not include:

1. Flight systems (i.e., software that meets the flight portions of Class A, B, C, or D Software Classifications);

2. Software developed by or for NASA to directly support an operational system (e.g., human-rated space system, robotics spacecraft, space instrument, airborne vehicle, major engineering/research facility, mission support facility, and primary/major science data collection storage and distribution systems);

3. Software developed by or for NASA to be flight qualified to support an operational system;

4. Software that directly affects primary or secondary mission objectives;

5. Software that can adversely affect the integrity of engineering/scientific artifacts;

6. Software used in technical decisions concerning operational systems, or systems being developed for operation;

7. Software that has an impact on operational vehicles; or

8. Software that is safety-critical.

**Business and Information Technology Infrastructure Software**

**Class F: General Purpose Computing, Business, and IT Software**

**a. Definition:**

General purpose computing Business and IT software used in support of the Agency, multiple Centers, multiple programs/projects, single Centers/projects, or locally deployed General Purpose Infrastructure To-Be Component of the NASA Enterprise Architecture. These software applications are generally used to support voice, wide-area network, local area network, video, data Centers, business and IT application services (e.g., Finance, Logistics, Human Capital, Procurement), messaging and collaboration, and public Web. A defect in Class F software is likely to affect the productivity of multiple users across a single geographic location or several geographic locations and may affect mission objectives or system safety. Mission objectives can be cost, schedule, or technical objectives for any work that the Agency or a Center performs.

**b. Examples:**

Examples of Class F software include, but are not limited to, Agency-wide enterprise applications (e.g., WebTADS, SAP, eTravel, ePayroll, Business Warehouse), Center-specific software, or specific Web applications, including mobile applications; Agency-wide educational outreach software; software in support of the NASA-wide area network; and the NASA Web portal.

  

# Appendix E. References

CMMI Development V2.0 model, see https://cmmiinstitute.com/

CMU/SEI-2010-TR-033 CMMI for Development, Version 1.3 Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, 2010. See https://cmmiinstitute.com/

FAR 2005-014, - Federal Acquisition Regulation; FAR Case 2005-014, Smart BUY Pages 61603 - 61605 [FR DOC # 07-5405]

FAR 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions - Commercial Items. (May 2015)

Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 (FISMA), 44 U.S.C. § 3551, et seq.

Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act (FITARA).

Government-Wide, US Government Accountability Office, GAO-14-413

IEEE 1012, IEEE Standard for Software Verification and Validation, https://standards.nasa.gov/

IEEE 1028, IEEE Standard for Software Reviews and Audits, https://standards.nasa.gov/

IEEE 828, IEEE Standard for Configuration Management in Systems and Software Engineering, https://standards.nasa.gov/

ISO/IEC 15939, Systems and Software Engineering—Measurement Process, https://standards.nasa.gov/

ISO/IEC 19770, International Standards for Software Asset Management Processes, https://standards.nasa.gov/

ISO/IEC 24765, Systems and Software Engineering – Vocabulary, https://standards.nasa.gov/

Megabyte Act of 2016.

NASA FAR Supplement 1852.227-86, Commercial Computer Software License in software agreements.

NASA Guidelines for Use of IT Contracts for Supporting End User Services (Update to MFR#137 and MFR#7)

NASA IV&V Management System, https://www.nasa.gov/centers/ivv/ims/home/index.html

NASA Software Engineering Website, https://nen.nasa.gov/web/software

NASA Software Process Across NASA (SPAN) Website, https://swehb.nasa.gov/

NASA/SP-2010-3403, NASA Scheduling Management Handbook

NASA-HDBK-2203, NASA Software Engineering Handbook, https://swehb.nasa.gov/

NASA-HDBK-4008, Programmable Logic Devices (PLD) Handbook, https://standards.nasa.gov/

NASA-HDBK-7009, NASA Handbook for Models and Simulations: An Implementation Guide for NASA-STD-7009, https://standards.nasa.gov/

NASA-STD-3001, Volumes I-II, Man-Systems Integration Standards, https://standards.nasa.gov/

NASA-STD-7009, Standard for Models and Simulations, https://standards.nasa.gov/

NASA-STD-8739.9, Software Formal Inspection Standard, https://standards.nasa.gov/

NFS 1813.301-79, Supporting Federal Policies, Regulations, and NASA Procedural Requirements

NFS 1852.237-72, Access to Sensitive Information (JUN 2005)

NFS 1852.237-73, Release of Sensitive Information (Jun 2005)

NIST 800-146, Cloud Computing Synopsis and Recommendations.

NIST 800-37, Risk Management Framework.

NIST 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations.

NPD 2091.1, Inventions Made By Government Employees, https://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov/

NPD 2540.1, Personal Use of Government Office Equipment Including Information Technology, https://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov/

NPR 2190.1, NASA Export Control Program, https://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov/

NPR 2210.1, Release of NASA Software, https://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov/

NPR 2800.2, Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility, https://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov/

NPR 2810.1, Security of Information Technology, https://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov/

NPR 2830.1, NASA Enterprise Architecture Procedures, https://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov/

NPR 2841.1, Identity, Credential, and Access Management, https://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov/

NPR 7120.10, Technical Standards for NASA Programs and Projects, https://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov/

NPR 9250.1, Capital Asset Identification and Treatment, https://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov/

OMB Memo M-04-08, “Maximizing Use of SmartBuy and Avoiding Duplication Agency Activities with the President’s 24 E-Gov Initiatives”

OMB Memo M-04-16, “Software Acquisition”

OMB Memo M-15-14, “Management and Oversight of Federal Information Technology”

OMB Memo M-16-12, “Category Management Policy 16-1: Improving the Acquisition and Management of Common Information Technology: Software Licensing.”

  
  

### DISTRIBUTION: NODIS

---

### **This Document is Obsolete and Is No Longer Used.** Check the NODIS Library to access the current version: http://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov

---

NPR 7150.2A NASA Software Engineering Requirements

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
|  | NASA Procedures and Guidelines |
| **This Document is Obsolete and Is No Longer Used.**  Check the NODIS Library to access the current version:  http://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov | |

---

#### NPR 7150.2A Effective Date: November 19, 2009 Cancellation Date: August 20, 2020 Responsible Office: KA

## NASA Software Engineering Requirements

  
 NID 7150.1 NASA Interim Directive (NID): NPR 7150.2A, NASA Software Engineering Requirements

# Table Of Contents

## Preface

P.1 Purpose  
P.2 Applicability and Scope  
P.3 Authority  
P.4 Applicable Documents  
P.5 Measurement/Verification  
P.6 Cancellation

## Chapter 1. Introduction

1.1 Overview  
1.2 Organizational Capabilities and Improvement  
1.3 Hierarchy of NASA Software-Related Documents

## Chapter 2. Software Management Requirements

2.1 Compliance with Laws, Policies, and Requirements  
2.2 Software Life-Cycle Planning  
2.3 Commercial, Government, Legacy/Heritage and Modified Off-The-Shelf Software  
2.4 Software Verification and Validation  
2.5 Project Formulation Requirements  
2.6 Software Contract Requirements

## Chapter 3. Software Engineering (Life-Cycle) Requirements

3.1 Software Requirements  
3.2 Software Design  
3.3 Software Implementation  
3.4 Software Testing  
3.5 Software Operations, Maintenance, and Retirement

## Chapter 4. Supporting Software Life-Cycle Requirements

4.1 Software Configuration Management  
4.2 Risk Management  
4.3 Software Peer Reviews/Inspections  
4.4 Software Measurement  
4.5 Best Practices  
4.6 Training

## Chapter 5. Software Documentation Requirements

5.1 Software Plans  
5.2 Software Requirements and Product Data  
5.3 Software Reports

## Chapter 6. Tailoring, Engineering Technical Authority, and Compliance Measurement

6.1 Tailoring of Requirements  
6.2 Designation of Engineering Technical Authority(s)  
6.3 Compliance

## Appendix A. Definitions Appendix B. Acronyms Appendix C. References Appendix D. Requirements Mapping Matrix Appendix E. Software Classifications

## List Of Figures

Figure 1-1 Relationships of Governing Software Documents

  

# Preface

## P.1 Purpose

Software engineering is a core capability and a key enabling technology for NASA's missions and supporting infrastructure. This NASA Procedural Requirements (NPR) supports the implementation of the NASA Policy Directive (NPD) 7120.4, NASA Engineering and Program/Project Management Policy. This NPR provides the minimal set of requirements established by the Agency for software acquisition, development, maintenance, retirement, operations, and management. This NPR is intended to support NASA programs and projects to accomplish their planned goals (e.g., mission success, safety, schedule, and budget) while satisfying their specified requirements. This NPR provides a set of software engineering requirements in generic terms to be applied throughout NASA and its contractor community. For this NPR, Software Engineering is defined as the application of a systematic, disciplined, quantifiable approach to the development, operation, and maintenance of software: that is, the application of engineering to software. For this NPR, Software is defined as the computer programs, procedures, scripts, rules, and associated documentation and data pertaining to the development and operation of a computer system. Software includes programs and data. This definition includes commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) software, government-off-the-shelf (GOTS) software, modified-off-the-shelf (MOTS) software, reused software, auto generated code, embedded software, firmware, and open source software components.

## P.2 Applicability and Scope

P.2.1 The requirements of this NPR cover software created or acquired by or for NASA. Requirements in this NPR apply to all of the Agency's investment areas containing software systems and subsystems. The applicability of the requirements in this NPR to specific systems and subsystems within the Agency's investment areas, programs, and projects is determined through the use of the NASA-wide definition of software classes in Appendix E, in conjunction with the Requirements Mapping Matrix in Appendix D. Some projects may contain multiple systems and subsystems having different software classes. Using the Requirements Mapping Matrix, the applicable requirements and their associated rigor are adapted according to the classification and safety-criticality of the software.

P.2.2 This NPR is applicable to NASA Headquarters and NASA Centers, including Component Facilities, Technical Support Centers, and Service Support Centers. This NPR applies to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, other contractors, grant recipients, or parties to agreements only to the extent specified or referenced in the appropriate contracts, grants, or agreements.

Note: This statement alone is not sufficient to stipulate requirements for the contractor or grant recipient. NASA project managers stipulate which of the NPR requirements are applicable to the contracts, grants, or agreements. The contract, grant, or agreement must state the requirement(s) from the NPR that apply.

P.2.3 This NPR shall be applied to software development, maintenance, retirement, operations, management, acquisition, and assurance activities started after its initial date of issuance [SWE-001].
Note: This document is not retroactively applicable to software development, maintenance, operations, management, acquisition, and assurance activities started before September 27, 2004 (i.e., existing systems and subsystems containing software for Shuttle, International Space Station, Hubble, Chandra, etc.).

P.2.4 This NPR provides procedural requirements to the responsible NASA project managers and contracting officers for NASA contracts. The NPR is made applicable to contractors through contract clauses, specifications, or statements of work in conformance with the NASA Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Supplement.

P.2.5 This NPR does not supersede more stringent requirements imposed by individual NASA organizations and other Federal Government agencies. Requirements in this NPR are identified by "shall" and a requirement number. Any material not identified by a "shall" in this NPR is informative in nature (e.g., notes, introductory text, etc.). The statements "must," "should," "are to be," "will," and "required" do not denote mandatory compliance.

## P.3 Authority

a. 40 U.S.C º 11101 et seq., Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-106, Division E).

b. 44 U.S.C. º 3501 et seq., Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-13).

c. OMB Circular A-130, Transmittal Memorandum #4, Management of Federal Information Resources (11/28/2000).

## P.4 Applicable Documents

The latest versions of the following documents are to be applied:

NPD 1000.0, NASA Governance and Strategic Management Handbook.

NPD 1000.3, The NASA Organization.

NPD 1000.5, Policy for NASA Acquisition.

NPD 2091.1, Inventions Made by Government Employees.

NPD 2190.1, NASA Export Control Program.

NPD 2800.1, Managing Information Technology.

NPD 2810.1, NASA Information Security Policy.

NPD 7120.4, NASA Engineering and Program/Project Management Policy.

NPD 8700.1, NASA Policy for Safety and Mission Success.

NPD 9250.1, NASA's Property Plant and Equipment Policy.

NPR 2190.1, NASA Export Control Program.

NPR 2210.1, External Release of NASA Software.

NPR 2800.1, Managing Information Technology.

NPR 2810.1, Security of Information Technology.

NPR 7120.5, NASA Space Flight Program and Project Management Requirements.

NPR 7120.6, Lessons Learned Process.

NPR 7120.7, NASA Information Technology and Institutional Infrastructure Program and Project Management Requirements.

NPR 7120.8, NASA Research and Technology Program and Project Management Requirements.

NPR 7123.1, NASA Systems Engineering Processes and Requirements.

NPR 8000.4, Agency Risk Management Procedural Requirements.

NPR 8705.2, Human-Rating Requirements for Space Systems.

NPR 8715.3, NASA General Safety Program Requirements.

NPR 8735.2, Management of Government Quality Assurance Functions for NASA Contracts.

NPR 8800.15, Real Estate Management Program Implementation Manual.

NASA-STD-8739.8, NASA Software Assurance Standard.

NASA-STD-8719.13, Software Safety Standard.

See Appendix C for a complete list of reference documents.

## P.5 Measurement/Verification

Compliance with the requirements contained in this NPR is documented in accordance with paragraph 6.3.2. Engineering Technical Authorities keep records of compliance matrices, waivers, and deviations with respect to this NPR in accordance with paragraph 6.3.7. Additionally, the NASA Headquarters Office of the Chief Engineer authorizes periodic appraisals against select requirements in this NPR in accordance with paragraph 6.3.8.

## P.6 Cancellation

NPR 7150.2, NASA Software Engineering Requirements, dated September 27, 2004.

  

NASA Chief Engineer

  

# Chapter 1: Introduction

## 1.1 Overview

1.1.1 This NPR imposes requirements on procedures, design considerations, activities, and tasks used to acquire, develop, assure, and maintain software created and acquired by or for NASA programs. This NPR is designed to be a minimum set of requirements to protect the Agency's investment in software engineering products and to fulfill its responsibility to the citizens of the United States of America.

1.1.2 The requirements in this NPR have been extracted from industry standards and proven NASA experience in software engineering. Centers and software developers will find that many of the requirements are satisfied through programs, procedures, and processes that are in place.

1.1.3 The Agency makes significant investments in software engineering to support the Agency's investment areas: Space Flight, Research and Technology, Information Technology, and Institutional Infrastructure. NASA ensures that programs, projects, systems, and subsystems that use software follow a standard set of requirements. One of the goals of this NPR is to bring the Agency's engineering community together to optimize resources and talents across Center boundaries. For engineers to effectively communicate and work seamlessly among Centers, a common framework of generic requirements is needed. This NPR fulfills this need for the Agency within the discipline of software engineering.

1.1.4 This NPR makes no recommendation for a specific software life-cycle model. Each has its strengths and weaknesses, and no one model is best for every situation. Projects can evaluate the potential life-cycle models and select one that best matches the project's requirements and supports the products that are being produced. Standards or organizational policy may dictate a particular life-cycle model.

1.1.5 The NASA Headquarters Office of the Chief Engineer is committed to instituting and updating these requirements to meet the Agency's current and future challenges in software engineering. Successful experiences will be codified in updated versions of this NPR after experience has been gained through its use within the NASA software community, the collection of lessons learned from projects, and the implementation records of Engineering Technical Authority.

## 1.2 Organizational Capabilities and Improvement

Software engineering is a core capability and a key enabling technology necessary for the support of NASA's Mission Directorates. Ensuring the quality, safety, and reliability of NASA software is of paramount importance in achieving mission success. This chapter describes the requirements to help NASA maintain and advance organizational capability in software engineering practices to effectively meet scientific and technological objectives of the Agency.

1.2.1 The NASA Headquarters Office of the Chief Engineer shall lead, maintain, and fund a NASA Software Engineering Initiative to advance software engineering practices. [SWE-002]

1.2.2 Each Center shall maintain, staff, and implement a plan to continually advance its in-house software engineering capability and monitor the software engineering capability of NASA's contractors, as per NASA's Software Engineering Initiative Improvement Plan. [SWE-003]

Note: The requirement for the content of each Center Software Engineering Improvement Plan is defined in Chapter 5. Each Center has a current Center Software Engineering Improvement Plan on file in the NASA Headquarters' Office of the Chief Engineer.

1.2.3 The NASA Headquarters' Chief Engineer shall periodically benchmark each Center's software engineering capability against its Center Software Engineering Improvement Plan. [SWE-004]

Note: Center Software Engineering Improvement Plans are documented per Center Software Engineering Improvement Plan requirements. Capability Maturity Model® Integration (CMMI®) for Development (CMMI-DEV) appraisals are the preferred benchmarks for objectively measuring progress toward software engineering process improvement at NASA Centers.

1.2.4 Each Center shall establish, document, execute, and maintain software processes. [SWE-005]

1.2.5 To support compliance with NASA policy and facilitate the application of resources to mitigate risk, the NASA Headquarters' Chief Engineer, in coordination with the Chief, Safety and Mission Assurance, shall maintain a reliable list of the Agency's programs and projects containing software. [SWE-006]

## 1.3 Hierarchy of NASA Software-Related Documents

This paragraph helps the reader understand the flow down of requirements with respect to software created and acquired by or for NASA. Figure 1-1 shows the software engineering perspective of the relationship between relevant documents. The shaded documents in the figure show documents that primarily address software engineering policy and requirements. The text that follows the figure provides a brief description of each type of document, listed according to its position in the figure.

**FIGURE 1-1 Relationships of Governing Software Documents**

1.3.1 Higher Agency-Level Requirements

NPD 1000.0, Strategic Management and Governance Handbook, is the highest ranking NASA directive. NPD 1000.0 sets forth the principles by which NASA will strategically manage the Agency, describes the means for doing so, and identifies the specific requirements that drive NASA's strategic planning process, leading to products such as the Strategic Plan and the Annual Performance and Accountability Report. NPD 1000.3 defines the basic roles and responsibilities necessary to conduct the mission and business of NASA. It is the official repository for defining NASA's organizational architecture. NPD 1000.5 provides the overall policy framework of NASA's disciplined, comprehensive strategic acquisition process with appropriate references to other key processes and directives. This acquisition process complies with NASA obligations as a Federal agency and is tailored to each of NASA's major areas of investment to ensure the efficient, effective use of the resources entrusted to the Agency. In the event of a conflict among the top-level directives, the information provided in the highest ranking directive takes precedence. In the event of conflict among the top-level directives and one or more lower-level NPDs and/or NPRs, the information provided in the top-level directive(s) takes precedence. These policies may include very high-level requirements relevant to software and information technology that are elaborated in lower-level policies and procedural requirements.

1.3.2 Agency-Level Software Policies and Requirements

NASA Policy Directive (NPD) 7120.4, NASA Engineering and Program/Project Management Policy, is an overarching document that establishes top-level policies for all software created and acquired by or for NASA. This policy covers software created, acquired, or maintained by or for NASA, including COTS, GOTS, and MOTS software, and open source, embedded, reused, and legacy/heritage software. NPR 7150.2, NASA Software Engineering Requirements, supports the implementation of the NPD 7120.4, NASA Engineering and Program/Project Management Policy. NPR 7150.2 establishes the NASA Software Classifications definitions and provides the minimal set of requirements established by the Agency for software acquisition, development, maintenance, retirement, operations, and management. NPR 7150.2 provides a set of software engineering requirements in generic terms to be applied throughout NASA and its contractor community. Additional Agency-level project management requirements (NPR 7120.5, NASA Space Flight Program and Project Management Requirements, NPR 7120.6, Lessons Learned Process, NPR 7120.7, NASA Information Technology and Institutional Infrastructure Program and Project Management Requirements, and NPR 7120.8, NASA Research and Technology Program and Project Management Requirements), information technology requirements (NPR 7120.7, NASA Information Technology and Institutional Infrastructure Program and Project Management Requirements) and system engineering requirements (NPR 7123, NASA Systems Engineering Processes and Requirements) exist that influence and affect the software development activities on a project. In the event of a conflict between an NPD and an NPR, the information provided in the NPD takes precedence.

1.3.3 Agency-Level Multi-Center and Product Line Requirements (non-software specific)

These NPDs and NPRs elaborate, tailor, and in some cases add requirements to the ones above to address the needs of major multi-Center projects, specific product lines, and specific focus areas. Examples of representative NPRs in this category are NPR 8705.2, Human-Rating Requirements for Space Systems, NPR 8715.3, NASA General Safety Program Requirements, and NPR 8735.2, Management of Government Quality Assurance Functions for NASA Contracts.

1.3.4 NASA and Industry Software Standards and Guidebooks

NASA Preferred Industry Software Standards and Guidebooks and NASA Software-Related Standards and Guidebooks are required when invoked by an NPD, NPR, Center-Level Directive, contract clause, specification, or statement of work.

1.3.5 Center-Level Directives (related to software)

Center-Level Directives are developed by NASA Centers to document their local software policies, requirements, and procedures. These directives are responsive to the requirements above them while addressing the specific application areas and the Center's mission within the Agency. In the event of a conflict between an NPD or an NPR with a Center-Level Directive, the information provided in the NPD or NPR takes precedence.

1.3.6 Government In-house Development

Government in-house software development policies and procedures are developed to provide quality software products that fulfill the requirements passed down by the project. Government in-house software development policies and procedures are typically designed to meet the needs of the supported projects in an effective and efficient manner.

1.3.7 Contractor and Subcontractor Development

Contractors and subcontractors develop in-house policies and procedures to provide quality software products and to fulfill the requirements passed down through a contract by a customer. Contractor and subcontractor policies and procedures are typically designed to satisfy different customers in an effective and efficient manner.

  

# Chapter 2: Software Management Requirements

The software management activities define and control the many software aspects of a project from beginning to end. This includes the interfaces to other organizations, determination of deliverables, estimates and tracking of schedule and cost, risk management, formal and informal reviews as well as other forms of verification and validation, and determination of the amount of supporting services. The planned management of these activities is captured in one or more software and/or system plans.

## 2.1 Compliance with Laws, Policies, and Requirements

The software management process requires the understanding and application of laws and additional NASA policy requirements that impact the development, release, and/or maintenance of software. The documents listed in this section are additional requirements that may have an affect on software development projects and are mentioned here for awareness and completeness.

2.1.1 The project ensures that software invention requirements of NPD 2091.1, Inventions by Government Employees, are implemented by the project.

2.1.2 The project ensures that software technology transfer requirements of NPR 2190.1, NASA Export Control Program, are implemented by the project. The project ensures that there will be no access by foreign persons or export or transfer to foreign persons or destinations until an export control review is completed and access/release is approved in accordance with NPR 2190.1, NASA Export Control Program, and NPR 2210.1, External Release of Software.

2.1.3 The project ensures that software external release requirements of NPR 2210.1, External Release of NASA Software, are implemented by the project.

2.1.4 The project ensures that the information security requirements of NPD 2810.1, Security of Information Technology, are implemented by the project.

2.1.5 The project ensures that software is accessible to individuals with disabilities in accordance with 36 CFR Part 1194, Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards.

2.1.6 The project ensures that software acquisitions or developments that meet NASA's capitalization criteria be capitalized per NASA's Property Plant and Equipment Policy, NPD 9250.1.

[Requirement numbers SWE-007 through SWE-012 are reserved.]

## 2.2 Software Life-Cycle Planning

Software Life-Cycle Planning covers the software aspects of a project from inception through retirement. Software Life-Cycle Planning cycle is an organizing process that considers the software as a whole and provides the planning activities required to insure a coordinated, well-engineered process for defining and implementing project activities. These processes, plans, and activities are coordinated within the project. At project conception, software needs for the project are analyzed, including acquisition, supply, development, operation, maintenance, retirement, and supporting activities and processes. The software effort is scoped and the processes, measurements, and activities are documented in software plan(s).

2.2.1 Software Plans

2.2.1.1 The project shall develop software plan(s). [SWE-013]

Note: The requirement for the content of each software plan (whether stand-alone or condensed into one or more project level or software documents) is defined in Chapter 5. These include, but are not limited to:

a. Software development or management plan.

b. Software configuration management plan.

c. Software test plans.

d. Software maintenance plans.

e. Software assurance plans.

Note: Software engineering and the software assurance disciplines are integrally related and yet each has its own responsibilities. Jointly they are responsible for providing project management with the optimal solution for software to meet the engineering, safety, quality, and reliability needs of the project. This necessitates a close working relationship to assure the appropriate levels of effort for both. See NASA-STD-8739.8 for more details on development of a software assurance plan.

2.2.1.2 For safety-critical software, the project shall develop a software safety plan. [SWE-130]

Note: The requirement for the content of the software safety plan (whether stand-alone or condensed into one or more project level or software documents) is defined in Chapter 5. The NASA Software Safety Standard, NASA-STD-8719.13, contains detailed requirements and guidance on development of software safety plans. Software engineering and the software safety disciplines jointly are responsible for providing project management with the optimal solution for software to meet the engineering, safety, quality, and reliability needs of the project.

2.2.1.3 If a project is selected for software Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) by the NASA Chief, Safety and Mission Assurance, the NASA IV&V program shall develop an IV&V Project Execution Plan (IPEP). [SWE-131]

Note: The selection of projects and capabilities by the Chief, Safety and Mission Assurance, for IV&V is based on recommendations from the NASA IV&V Board of Advisors. The recommendations provided by the NASA IV&V Board of Advisors are the result of a multi-step process. First, the NASA Software Inventory, maintained by the Office of the Chief Engineer, is used to generate a candidate list of projects. The candidate project criteria include:

a. Whether the project contains safety-critical software.

b. The project's software classification(s) per this NPR.

c. The level of software effort on the project.

d. The project's NASA Category (e.g., Category 1, 2, or 3, as defined in NPR 7120.5D).

e. Whether the responsible Center recommends the project for IV&V.

2.2.1.4 Second, the IV&V program utilizes this list and associated Center-provided data, captured in the NASA Software Inventory, to initiate a portfolio based risk assessment (PBRA) for capabilities within the candidate projects. The PBRA process assesses the risk of capabilities which have software associated with them, based on factors including:

a. Complexity of the software implementing the capability under assessment.

b. Risk to safety and mission success associated with the capability under assessment.

c. Consequences of failure of the capability under assessment.

d. Time to criticality (i.e., the amount of time before the system or subsystem enters into a critical condition).

The results of these assessments are prioritized, by capability, in order to provide recommendations for IV&V support on specific capabilities associated with specific projects. These recommendations are provided to the NASA IV&V Board of Advisors, which in turn provides its recommendations to the Chief, Safety and Mission Assurance.

Note: The IV&V program determines and documents the services to be provided for projects selected for IV&V by the NASA Chief, Safety and Mission Assurance. IV&V support is funded and managed independent of the selected project. The IPEP is developed by the IV&V program and serves as the operational document that will be provided to the project receiving IV&V support. The IV&V program and the project will establish a mutual understanding of the NASA IV&V program's activities and IV&V project interfaces. Per the responsibilities defined in NPD 7120.4, NASA Engineering and Program/Project Management Policy, section 5.J.(5), projects ensure that software providers allow access to software and associated artifacts to enable implementation of IV&V. Additional information on the content of the IPEP is found in Chapter 5. Additional detail on the IV&V PBRA and IPEP may be found in the NASA IV&V Management System, located at: http://www.nasa.gov/centers/ivv/ims/home/index.html

2.2.2 The project shall implement, maintain, and execute the software plan(s). [SWE-014]

2.2.3 The project shall establish, document, and maintain at least one software cost estimate and associated cost parameter(s) that satisfies the following conditions: [SWE-015]

a. Covers the entire software life cycle.

b. Is based on selected project attributes (e.g., assessment of the size, functionality, complexity, criticality, and risk of the software processes and products).

c. Is based on the cost implications of the technology to be used and the required maturation of that technology.

Note: In the event there is a decision to outsource, it is a best practice that both the acquirer (NASA) and the provider (contractor/sub) should be responsible for developing software cost estimates.

2.2.4 The project shall document and maintain a software schedule that satisfies the following conditions: [SWE-016]

a. Coordinates with the overall project schedule.

b. Documents the interactions of milestones and deliverables between software, hardware, operations, and the rest of the system.

c. Reflects the critical path for the software development activities.

2.2.5 The project shall plan, track, and ensure project specific software training for project personnel. [SWE-017]

Note: This requirement is intended to address skills needed to support the software activities on a project. Not all skills required to accomplish a software project are "software" skills. The software engineering staff may require training in other domains to facilitate support of a project.

2.2.6 The project shall regularly hold reviews of software activities, status, and results with the project stakeholders and track issues to resolution. [SWE-018]

2.2.7 The project shall select and document a software development life cycle or model that includes phase transition criteria for each life-cycle phase (e.g., formal review milestones, informal reviews, software requirements review (SRR), preliminary design review (PDR), critical design review (CDR), test readiness reviews, customer acceptance or approval reviews). [SWE-019]

2.2.8 Software Assessments

2.2.8.1 The project shall classify each system and subsystem containing software in accordance with the software classification definitions for Classes A, B, C, D, E, F, G, and H software in Appendix E. [SWE-020]

Note: The applicability of requirements in this NPR to specific systems and subsystems containing software is determined through the use of the NASA-wide definitions for software classes in Appendix E and the designation of the software as safety-critical or non safety-critical in conjunction with the Requirements Mapping Matrix in Appendix D. These definitions are based on 1) usage of the software with or within a NASA system, 2) criticality of the system to NASA's major programs and projects, 3) extent to which humans depend upon the system, 4) developmental and operational complexity, and 5) extent of the Agency's investment. The NPR allows software written to support development activities (e.g., verification software, simulations) to be classified separately from the system under development; however, such support software is usually developed in conjunction with the system and not as a separate project. Projects may decide to reuse processes and work products established for the development of the system to satisfy the NPR 7150.2 requirements for the support software. The software assurance organization will perform an independent classification assessment and the results will be compared as per NASA-STD-8739.8, Software Assurance Standard. Software management and software assurance must reach agreement on classification of systems and subsystems. Disagreements are elevated via both the Engineering Technical Authority and Safety and Mission Assurance Technical Authority chains. The classification decision is documented in the Software Development or Management Plan as defined in Chapter 5.

2.2.8.2 The project's software assurance organization shall perform an independent classification assessment. [SWE-132]

2.2.8.3 The project, in conjunction with the Safety and Mission Assurance organization, shall determine the software safety criticality in accordance with NASA-STD-8739.8. [SWE-133]

Note: Software safety criticality is initially determined in the formulation phase using the NASA Software Assurance Standard, NASA-STD-8739.8. As the software is developed or changed and the computer software configuration items (CSCI), models, and simulations are identified, the safety-critical software determination can be reassessed and applied at lower levels. The software safety assessment and planning are performed for each software acquisition, development, and maintenance activity, and for changes to legacy\heritage systems. When software in a system or subsystem is found to be safety critical, additional requirements in the NASA Software Safety Standard will augment those associated with the software class requirements found in this document. The software assurance organization is required by NASA Software Assurance Standard, NASA-STD-8739.8, to perform an independent software safety criticality assessment and work with the project to resolve any differences. Engineering and software assurance must reach agreement on safety-critical determination of software. Disagreements are elevated via both the Engineering Technical Authority and Safety and Mission Assurance Technical Authority chains.

2.2.9 If a system or subsystem evolves to a higher software classification as defined in Appendix E, then the project shall update its plan to fulfill the added requirements per the Requirements Mapping Matrix in Appendix D. [SWE-021]

2.2.10 The project shall implement software assurance per NASA-STD-8739.8, NASA Software Assurance Standard. [SWE-022]

Note: Software assurance activities occur throughout the life of the project. Some of the actual analyses and activities may be performed by engineering or the project. NASA's Safety and Mission Assurance organizations provide assurance that the products and processes are implemented according to the agreed upon plan(s). Software assurance is recommended on software activities and products, including solicitations, contract and memorandums of agreements, software plans, requirements, design, implementation, verification, validation, certification, acceptance, maintenance, operations, and retirement activities.

2.2.11 When a project is determined to have safety-critical software, the project shall ensure that the safety requirements of NASA-STD-8719.13, Software Safety Standard, are implemented by the project. [SWE-023]

NOTE: Engineering and software assurance initially determine software safety criticality in the formulation phase per NASA-STD-8739.8, NASA Software Assurance Standard; the results are compared and any differences are resolved. As the software is developed or changed and the software components, software models, and software simulations are identified, the safety-critical software determination can be reassessed and applied at lower levels. Further scoping and tailoring of the safety effort is found in the NASA-STD-8719.13, Software Safety Standard and NASA-GB-8719.13, NASA Software Safety Guidebook.

2.2.12 When a project is determined to have safety-critical software, the project shall ensure the following items are implemented in the software: [SWE-134]

a. Safety-critical software is initialized, at first start and at restarts, to a known safe state.

b. Safety-critical software safely transitions between all predefined known states.

c. Termination performed by software of safety critical functions is performed to a known safe state.

d. Operator overrides of safety-critical software functions require at least two independent actions by an operator.

e. Safety-critical software rejects commands received out of sequence, when execution of those commands out of sequence can cause a hazard.

f. Safety-critical software detects inadvertent memory modification and recovers to a known safe state.

g. Safety-critical software performs integrity checks on inputs and outputs to/from the software system.

h. Safety-critical software performs prerequisite checks prior to the execution of safety-critical software commands.

i. No single software event or action is allowed to initiate an identified hazard.

j. Safety-critical software responds to an off nominal condition within the time needed to prevent a hazardous event.

k. Software provides error handling of safety-critical functions.

l. Safety-critical software has the capability to place the system into a safe state.

m. Safety-critical elements (requirements, design elements, code components, and interfaces) are uniquely identified as safety-critical.
n. Incorporate requirements in the coding methods, standards, and/or criteria to clearly identify safety-critical code and data within source code comments.

Note: This section provides additional software safety requirements that are considered a best practice for safety-critical systems incorporating safety-critical software. These requirements are applicable to components that reside in a safety-critical system, and the components control, mitigate or contribute to a hazard as well as software used to command hazardous operations/activities. The requirements contained in this section complement the processes identified in NASA-STD-8719.13, NASA Software Safety Standard. Software engineering and software assurance disciplines each have specific responsibilities for providing project management with work products that meet the engineering, safety, quality, and reliability requirements on a project.

Note: Additional notes on specific items addressed above are:

Item a. - Aspects to consider when establishing a known safe state includes state of the hardware and software, operational phase, device capability, configuration, file allocation tables, and boot code in memory.

Item d. - Multiple independent actions by the operator help to reduce potential operator mistakes.

Item f. - Memory modifications may occur due to radiation-induced errors, uplink errors, configuration errors, or other causes so the computing system must be able to detect the problem and recover to a safe state. As an example, computing systems may implement error detection and correction, software executable and data load authentication, periodic memory scrub, and space partitioning to provide protection against inadvertent memory modification. Features of the processor and/or operating system can be utilized to protect against incorrect memory use.

Item g. - Software needs to accommodate both nominal inputs (within specifications) and off-nominal inputs, from which recovery may be required.

Item h. - The requirement is intended to preclude the inappropriate sequencing of commands. Appropriateness is determined by the project and conditions designed into the safety-critical system. Safety-critical software commands are commands that can cause or contribute to a hazardous event or operation.

Item j. - The intent is to establish a safe state following detection of an off-nominal indication. The safety mitigation must complete between the time that the off-nominal condition is detected and the time the hazard would occur without the mitigation. The safe state can either be an alternate state from normal operations or can be accomplished by detecting and correcting the fault or failure within the timeframe necessary to prevent a hazard and continuing with normal operations.

Item k.- Error handling is an implementation mechanism or design technique by which software faults and/or failures are detected, isolated, and recovered to allow for correct run-time program execution. The software error handling features that support safety-critical functions may detect and respond to hardware and operational faults and/or failures.

Item l.- The design of the system must provide sufficient sensors and effectors, as well as self checks within the software, in order to enable the software to detect and respond to system potential hazards.

2.2.13 The project shall ensure that actual results and performance of software activities are tracked against the software plans. [SWE-024]

2.2.14 The project shall ensure that corrective actions are taken, recorded, and managed to closure when actual results and performance deviate from the software plans. [SWE-025]

2.2.15 The project shall ensure that changes to commitments (e.g., software plans) are agreed to by the affected groups and individuals. [SWE-026]

## 2.3 Commercial, Government, Legacy\Heritage and Modified Off-The-Shelf Software

Projects utilizing Commercial, Government, Legacy\Heritage, and MOTS software components need to take into consideration the importance of planning and managing the inclusion of those components into the project software. The off-the-shelf software discussed here apply only when the off-the-shelf software elements are to be included as part of a NASA system (per section P.2.1). The following requirements do not apply to stand-alone desktop applications (e.g., word processing programs, spreadsheet programs, presentation programs). When software components use COTS applications (e.g., spreadsheet programs, database programs) within a NASA system/subsystem application, the software components need to be assessed and classified as part of the software subsystem in which they reside. Note that Commercial, Government, Legacy\Heritage, and MOTS software must also meet the applicable requirements for each class of software.

2.3.1 The project shall ensure that when a COTS, GOTS, MOTS, reused, or open source software component is to be acquired or used, the following conditions are satisfied: [SWE-027]

a. The requirements that are to be met by the software component are identified.

b. The software component includes documentation to fulfill its intended purpose (e.g., usage instructions).

c. Proprietary, usage, ownership, warranty, licensing rights, and transfer rights have been addressed.

d. Future support for the software product is planned.

e. The software component is verified and validated to the same level of confidence as would be required of the developed software component.

Note: The project responsible for procuring off-the-shelf software is responsible for documenting, prior to procurement, a plan for verifying and validating the off-the-shelf software to the same level of confidence that would be needed for an equivalent class of software if obtained through a "development" process. The project ensures that the COTS, GOTS, MOTS, reused, and open source software components and data meet the applicable requirements in this NPR assigned to its software classification as shown in Appendix D.

Note: For these types of software components consider the following:

a. Supplier agreement to deliver or escrow source code or third party maintenance agreement is in place.

b. A risk mitigation plan to cover the following cases is available:

(1) Loss of supplier or third party support for the product.

(2) Loss of maintenance for the product (or product version).

(3) Loss of the product (e.g., license revoked, recall of product, etc.).

c. Agreement that the project has access to defects discovered by the community of users has been obtained. When available, the project can consider joining a product users group to obtain this information.

d. A plan to provide adequate support is in place; the plan needs to include maintenance planning and the cost of maintenance.

e. Documentation changes to the software management, development, operations, or maintenance plans that are affected by the use or incorporation of COTS, GOTS, MOTS, reused, and legacy\heritage software.

f. Open source software licenses review by the Center Counsel.

## 2.4 Software Verification and Validation

Ensuring that the software products meet their requirements and intended usage, and that the products were built correctly is the purpose of verification and validation. Both software validation and software verification activities span the entire software life cycle and need to be planned. Formal and informal reviews, software peer reviews/inspections, testing, demonstration, and analyses can be used. Each project is generally free to choose the extent and combination of verification and validation methods and activities that best suit the project. Because software peer reviews/inspections are such an important verification and validation tool with proven value, specific software peer review/inspection requirements are contained in this NPR (Chapter 4).

2.4.1 The project shall plan software verification activities, methods, environments, and criteria for the project. [SWE-028]

Note: Software verification is a software engineering activity that shows confirmation that software products properly reflect the requirements specified for them. In other words, verification ensures that "you built it right." Examples of verification methods include but are not limited to: software peer reviews/inspections of software engineering products for discovery of defects, software verification of requirements by use of simulations, black box and white box testing techniques, software load testing, software stress testing, software performance testing, decision table-based testing, functional decomposition-based testing, acceptance testing, path coverage testing, analyses of requirement implementation, and software product demonstrations. Refer to the software plan requirements for software verification planning and incorporation, including the planned use of software IV&V activities.

2.4.2 The project shall plan the software validation activities, methods, environments, and criteria for the project. [SWE-029]

Note: Software validation is a software engineering activity that shows confirmation that the software product, as provided (or as it will be provided), fulfills its intended use in its intended environment. In other words, validation ensures that "you built the right thing." Examples of validation methods include but are not limited to: formal reviews, prototype demonstrations, functional demonstrations, software testing, software peer reviews/inspections of software product component, behavior in a simulated environment, acceptance testing against mathematical models, analyses, and operational environment demonstrations. Refer to the software plan requirements for software validation planning and incorporation (Chapter 5).

2.4.3 The project shall record, address, and track to closure the results of software verification activities. [SWE-030]

2.4.4 The project shall record, address, and track to closure the results of software validation activities. [SWE-031]

## 2.5 Project Formulation Requirements

Much of the project preparation and planning takes place during project formulation. Identification of project formulation requirements is an essential part of the early planning phases and must be started as the project begins. This is especially important as software requirements must be properly incorporated into the project cost estimates, schedule estimates, work planning, solicitations, evaluations of contractors, and the contracts themselves.

2.5.1 [SWE-032] The project shall ensure that software is acquired, developed, and maintained by an organization with a non-expired Capability Maturity Model Integration® for Development (CMMI-DEV) rating as measured by a Software Engineering Institute (SEI) authorized or certified lead appraiser as follows:

For **Class A** software:

CMMI-DEV Maturity Level 3 Rating or higher for software, or CMMI-DEV Capability Level 3 Rating or higher in all CMMI-DEV Maturity Level 2 and 3 process areas for software.

For **Class B** software:

CMMI-DEV Maturity Level 2 Rating or higher for software, or CMMI-DEV Capability Level 2 Rating or higher for software in the following process areas:

a. Requirements Management.

b. Configuration Management.

c. Process and Product Quality Assurance.

d. Measurement and Analysis.

e. Project Planning.

f. Project Monitoring and Control.

g. Supplier Agreement Management (if applicable).

For **Class C** software:

The required CMMI-DEV Maturity Level for Class C software will be defined per Center or project requirements.

Note: Organizations who have completed Standard CMMI® Appraisal Method for Process Improvement (SCAMPISM) Class A appraisals against the CMMI-DEV model are to maintain their rating and have their results posted on the SEI Web site so that NASA can assess the current maturity/capability rating. Software development organizations need to be reappraised and keep an active appraisal rating posted on the SEI Web site during the time that they are responsible for the development and maintenance of the software.

Note: For Class A software development only, a transition period to obtain a CMMI-DEV Maturity/Capability Level 3 Rating will be allowed for organizations developing Class A software per the NASA Headquarters' Office of the Chief Engineer's approved Center Software Engineering Improvement Plan as described in SWE-003, SWE-004, and SWE-108.

Note: For Class B software, in lieu of a CMMI rating by a development organization, the project will conduct an evaluation, performed by a qualified evaluator selected by the Center Engineering Technical Authority, of the seven process areas listed in SWE-032 and mitigate any risk, if deficient. This exception is intended to be used in those cases in which NASA wishes to purchase a product from the "best of class provider," but the best of class provider does not have the required CMMI rating. When this exception is exercised, the Center Engineering Technical Authority should be notified.

2.5.2 The project shall assess options for software acquisition versus development. [SWE-033]

Note: The assessment can include risk, cost, and benefits criteria for each of the options listed below:

a. Acquire an off-the-shelf software product that satisfies the requirement.

b. Develop the software product or obtain the software service internally.

c. Develop the software product or obtain the software service through contract.

d. Enhance an existing software product or service.

Note: Risks are considered in software make/buy and acquisition decisions. The project needs to ensure that software products used in the design or support of human space flight components or systems include a level of rigor in risk mitigation as a software management requirement, regardless of software classification. The level of documentation needed for risk identification and tracking is defined by the Center processes.

2.5.3 The project shall define and document or record the acceptance criteria and conditions for the software. [SWE-034]

2.5.4 For new contracts, the project shall establish a procedure for software supplier selection, including proposal evaluation criteria. [SWE-035]

2.5.5 The project shall determine which software processes, activities, and tasks are required for the project. [SWE-036]

2.5.6 The project shall define the milestones at which the software supplier(s) progress will be reviewed and audited as a part of the acquisition activities. [SWE-037]

Note: Known contract milestones are expected to be included in the resulting contract.

2.5.7 The project shall document software acquisition planning decisions. [SWE-038]

Note: This may be in an acquisition plan or in another project planning document.

## 2.6 Software Contract Requirements

The requirements in this section are applicable for NASA contracted software procurements (e.g., reuse of existing software, modification of existing software, contracted and subcontracted software, and/or development of new software). Acquisition requirements are focused both inside the acquisition organization to ensure the acquisition is conducted effectively and outside the acquisition organization as the organization conducts project monitoring and control of its suppliers. These acquisition requirements provide a foundation for acquisition process discipline and rigor that enables product and service development to be repeatedly executed with high levels of acquisition success. This section contains project software acquisition and contract requirements to ensure that NASA has the data needed for the review of project provided systems and/or services. The project is responsible for ensuring that these requirements apply when software activities are subcontracted from a NASA prime contractor. These requirements are used in addition to, not in place of, the other requirements of this NPR.

2.6.1 Government software insight requirements.

2.6.1.1 The project shall require the software supplier(s) to provide insight into software development and test activities; at a minimum the following activities are required: monitoring integration, review of the verification adequacy, review of trade study data and results, auditing the software development process, participation in software reviews and systems and software technical interchange meetings. [SWE-039]

2.6.1.2 The project shall require the software supplier(s) to provide NASA with all software products and software process tracking information, in electronic format, including software development and management metrics. [SWE-040]

2.6.1.3 The project shall require the software supplier(s) to notify the project, in the response to the solicitation, as to whether open source software will be included in code developed for the project. [SWE-041]

2.6.1.4 The project shall require the software supplier(s) to provide NASA with electronic access to the source code developed for the project, including MOTS software and non-flight software (e.g., ground test software, simulations, ground analysis software, ground control software, science data processing software, and hardware manufacturing software). [SWE-042]

Note: Known contract requirements are addressed in the solicitations and included in the resulting contract. Additionally, if the project needs to control further use and distribution of the resulting software or requires unlimited rights in the software, e.g., right to use, modify, and distribute the software for any purpose, the project can consider having the software copyright assigned to the Government. A list of software deliverables needs to be addressed in the solicitations, if the software is being procured. The project can consult with the Center's Chief of Patent/Intellectual Property Counsel regarding required rights associated with the software. Section 3.5.4 contains a list of Software Operations, Maintenance, and Retirement deliverables.

2.6.2 Supplier Monitoring Requirements.

2.6.2.1 The project shall require the software supplier to track all software changes and non-conformances and provide the data for the project's review. [SWE-043]

2.6.2.2 The project shall require the software supplier(s) to provide software metric data as defined in the project's Software Metrics Report. [SWE-044]

Note: The requirement for the content of a Software Metrics Report is defined in Chapter 5.

2.6.2.3 The project shall participate in any joint NASA/contractor audits of the software development process and software configuration management process. [SWE-045]

2.6.2.4 The project shall require the software supplier(s) to provide a software schedule for the project's review and schedule updates as requested. [SWE-046]

2.6.2.5 The project shall require the software supplier(s) to make available, electronically, the software traceability data for the project's review. [SWE-047]

2.6.2.6 The project shall document in the solicitation the software processes, activities, and tasks to be performed by the supplier. [SWE-048]

  

# Chapter 3: Software Engineering Life-Cycle Requirements

This NPR makes no recommendation for a specific software life-cycle model. Each has its strengths and weaknesses, and no one model is best for every situation. Whether using the spiral model, the iterative model, waterfall, or any other development life-cycle model, each has steps of requirements, design, implementation, testing, release to operations, maintenance, and retirement. Although this NPR does not impose a particular life-cycle model on each software project, this NPR does support a standard set of life-cycle phases. Use of the different phases of a life cycle allows the various products of a project to be gradually developed and matured from initial concepts through the fielding of the product and to its final retirement. Without recommending a life cycle, the requirements for each of these steps are provided below.

## 3.1 Software Requirements

The requirements phase is one of the most important phases of software engineering. Studies show that the top problems in the software industry are due to poor requirements elicitation, inadequate requirements specification, and inadequate management of changes to requirements. Requirements provide the foundation for the entire life cycle as well as for the software product. Requirements also provide a basis for planning and estimating. Requirements are based on customer, user, and other stakeholder needs and design and development constraints. The development of requirements includes elicitation, analysis, documentation, verification, and validation. Ongoing customer validation of the requirements to ensure the end products meet the customer needs is an important part of the life-cycle process. This can be accomplished via rapid prototyping and customer-involved reviews of iterative and final software requirements.

3.1.1 Requirements Development.

3.1.1.1 The project shall document the software requirements. [SWE-049]

Note: The requirements for the content of a Software Requirement Specification and a Data Dictionary document are defined in Chapter 5. The requirements definition activity also includes documenting key decisions, developing requirement rationales, and defining assumptions. The requirement development activities can use lessons learned in performing the logical decomposition process activities. The requirements definition activity provides an understanding of the derived technical requirements baseline, a logical decomposition model, traceability to technical requirements, and an understanding of the stakeholder's expectations.

3.1.1.2 The project shall identify, develop, document, approve, and maintain software requirements based on analysis of customer and other stakeholder requirements and the operational concepts. [SWE-050]

3.1.1.3 The project shall perform software requirements analysis based on flowed-down and derived requirements from the top-level systems engineering requirements and the hardware specifications and design. [SWE-051]

Note: The software requirements analysis determines the requirement's safety criticality, correctness, consistency, clarity, completeness, traceability, feasibility, verifiability, and maintainability. The software requirements analysis activities include the allocation of functional, non-functional, and performance requirements to functions and subfunctions.

3.1.1.4 The project shall perform, document, and maintain bidirectional traceability between the software requirement and the higher-level requirement. [SWE-052]

3.1.2 Requirements Management.

3.1.2.1 The project shall collect and manage changes to the software requirements. [SWE-053]

Note: The project analyzes and documents changes to requirements for cost, technical, and schedule impacts.

3.1.2.2 The project shall identify, initiate corrective actions, and track until closure inconsistencies among requirements, project plans, and software products. [SWE-054]

3.1.2.3 The project shall perform requirements validation to ensure that the software will perform as intended in the customer environment. [SWE-055]

Note: Requirements validation includes confirmation that the requirements meet the needs and expectations of the customer. Requirement validation is confirmation, through the provision of objective evidence, that the requirements for a specific intended use or application have been fulfilled.

## 3.2 Software Design

Software design is the process of defining the software architecture, components, modules, interfaces, and data for a software system to satisfy specified requirements. The software architecture is the fundamental organization of a system embodied in its components, their relationships to each other and to the environment, and the principles guiding its design and evolution. The software architectural design is concerned with creating a strong overall structure for software entities that fulfill allocated system and software-level requirements. Typical views captured in an architectural design include the decomposition of the software subsystem into design entities, computer software configuration items (CSCI), definitions of external and internal interfaces, dependency relationships among entities and system resources, and finite state machines. Detailed design further refines the design into lower-level entities that permit the implementation by coding in a programming language. Typical attributes that are documented for lower-level entities include: identifier, type, purpose, function, constraints, subordinates, dependencies, interface, resources, processing, and data. Rigorous specification languages, graphical representations, and related tools have been developed to support the evaluation of critical properties at the design level. Projects are encouraged to take advantage of these improved design techniques to prevent and eliminate errors as early in the life cycle as possible.

3.2.1 The project shall document and maintain the software design. [SWE-056]

Note: The requirement for the content of a Software Design Description document and an interface design description document are defined in Chapter 5 as applicable by software classification.

3.2.2 The project shall transform the allocated and derived requirements into a documented software architectural design. [SWE-057]

Note: The software architecture of a program or computing system is the structure or structures of the system, which comprise software components, the properties of those components, and the relationships between them. Documenting software architecture facilitates communication between stakeholders, documents early decisions about high-level design, and allows reuse of design components and patterns between projects.

3.2.3 The project shall develop, record, and maintain a detailed design based on the software architectural design that describes the lower-level units so that they can be coded, compiled, and tested. [SWE-058]

3.2.4 The project shall perform and maintain bidirectional traceability between the software requirements and the software design. [SWE-059]

## 3.3 Software Implementation

Software implementation consists of implementing the requirements and design into code, data, and documentation. Software implementation also consists of following coding methods and standards. Unit testing is also usually a part of software implementation (unit testing can also be conducted during the testing phase).

3.3.1 The project shall implement the software design into software code. [SWE-060]

3.3.2 The project shall ensure that software coding methods, standards, and/or criteria are adhered to and verified. [SWE-061]

3.3.3 The project shall ensure that results from static analysis tool(s) are used in verifying and validating software code. [SWE-135]

Note: Modern static code analysis tools can identify a variety of issues and problems, including but not limited to dead code, non-compliances with coding standards, security vulnerabilities, race conditions, memory leaks, and redundant code. Typically, static analysis tools are used to help verify adherence with coding methods, standards, and/or criteria. While false positives are an acknowledged shortcoming of static analysis tools, users can calibrate, tune, and filter results to make effective use of these tools. Software peer reviews/inspections of code items can include reviewing the results from static code analysis tools.

Note: Static analysis tools may not be readily available for some platforms or computing languages. If static analysis tools are determined to not be available, the project can document the alternate manual methods and procedures to be used to verify and validate the software code. These manual methods and procedures will be addressed or referenced in the project's compliance matrix against this requirement.

3.3.4 The project shall ensure that the software code is unit tested per the plans for software testing. [SWE-062]

3.3.5 The project shall provide a Software Version Description document for each software release. [SWE-063]

Note: The requirement for the content of a Software Version Description document is defined in Chapter 5.

3.3.6 The project shall provide and maintain bidirectional traceability from software design to the software code. [SWE-064]

3.3.7 The project shall validate and accredit software tool(s) required to develop or maintain software. [SWE-136]

Note: Projects need to determine and define acceptance processes for software tool(s), used to develop or maintain Class A, B, C, or safety-critical software. Examples of software tools include but are not limited to compilers, code-coverage tools, development environments, build tools, user interface tools, debuggers, and code generation tools.

## 3.4 Software Testing

The purpose of testing is to verify the software functionality and remove defects. Testing verifies the code against the requirements and the design to ensure that the requirements are implemented. Testing also identifies problems and defects that are corrected and tracked to closure before product delivery. Testing also validates that the software operates appropriately in the intended environment.

3.4.1 The project shall establish and maintain: [SWE-065]

a. Software Test Plan(s).

b. Software Test Procedure(s).

c. Software Test Report(s).

Note: The requirements for the content of a Software Test Plan, Software Test Procedure, and Software Test Report are defined in Chapter 5.

3.4.2 The project shall perform software testing as defined in the Software Test Plan. [SWE-066]

Note: A best practice for Class A, B, and C software projects is to have formal software testing conducted, witnessed, and approved by an independent organization outside of the development team. Testing could include software integration testing, systems integration testing, validation testing, end-to-end testing, acceptance testing, white and black box testing, decision and path analysis, statistical testing, stress testing, performance testing, regression testing, qualification testing, simulation, and others. Use of automated software testing tools are also to be considered in software testing. Test breadth and accuracy can be increased through the use of test personnel independent of the software design and implementation teams, software peer reviews/inspections of Software Test Procedures and Software Test Results, and employing impartial test witnesses.

3.4.3 The project shall ensure that the implementation of each software requirement is verified to the requirement. [SWE-067]

3.4.4 The project shall evaluate test results and document the evaluation. [SWE-068]

3.4.5 The project shall document defects identified during testing and track to closure. [SWE-069]

3.4.6 The project shall verify, validate, and accredit software models, simulations, and analysis tools required to perform qualification of flight software or flight equipment. [SWE-070]

Note: Center processes address issues such as numerical accuracy, uncertainty analysis, and sensitivity analysis, as well as verification and validation for software implementations of models and simulations. Information regarding specific verification and validation techniques and the analysis of models and simulations can be found in the NASA standard NASA-STD-7009.

3.4.7 The project shall update Software Test Plan(s) and Software Test Procedure(s) to be consistent with software requirements. [SWE-071]

3.4.8 The project shall provide and maintain bidirectional traceability from the Software Test Procedures to the software requirements. [SWE-072]

3.4.9 The project shall ensure that the software system is validated on the targeted platform or high-fidelity simulation. [SWE-073]

Note: Typically, a high-fidelity simulation has the exact processor, processor performance, timing, memory size, and interfaces as the flight unit.

## 3.5 Software Operations, Maintenance, and Retirement

Planning for operations, maintenance, and retirement must be considered throughout the software life cycle. Operational concepts and scenarios are derived from customer requirements and validated in the operational or simulated environment. Software maintenance activities sustain the software product after the product is delivered to the customer until retirement.

3.5.1 The project shall document the software maintenance plans in a Software Maintenance Plan document. [SWE-074]

Note: The requirement for the content of a Software Maintenance Plan is defined in Chapter 5.

3.5.2 The project shall plan software operations, maintenance, and retirement activities. [SWE-075]

3.5.3 The project shall implement software operations, maintenance, and retirement activities as defined in the respective plans. [SWE-076]

3.5.4 The project shall complete and deliver the software product to the customer with appropriate documentation to support the operations and maintenance phase of the software's life cycle. [SWE-077]

Note: Delivery includes, as applicable, Software User's Manual (as defined in Chapter 5), source files, executable software, procedures for creating executable software, procedures for modifying the software, and a Software Version Description. Open source software licenses are reviewed by the Center's Chief of Patent/Intellectual Property Counsel before being accepted into software development projects. Other documentation considered for delivery includes:

a. Summary and status of all accepted Change Requests to the baselined Software Requirements Specifications.

b. Summary and status of all major software capability changes since baselining of the Software Design Documents.

c. Summary and status of all major software tests (including development, verification, and performance testing).

d. Summary and status of all Problem Reports written against the software.

e. Summary and status of all software requirements deviations and waivers.

f. Summary and status of all software user notes.

g. Summary and status of all quality measures historically and for this software.

h. Definition of open work, if any.

i. Software configuration records defining the verified and validated software, including requirements verification data (e.g., requirements verification matrix).

j. Final version of the software documentation, including the final Software Version Description document(s).

k. Summary and status of any open software-related risks.

3.5.5 The project shall deliver to the customer the as-built documentation to support the operations and maintenance phase of the software life cycle. [SWE-078]

  

# Chapter 4: Supporting Software Life-Cycle Requirements

Support processes are not limited to a single software life-cycle phase such as requirements, design, implementation, or test. Support processes typically occur throughout the software life cycle. For example, typical configuration management baselines (e.g., requirements, code, products) happen across the life cycle. Support processes are software management and engineering processes that typically support the entire software life cycle (e.g., configuration management).

## 4.1 Software Configuration Management

Software configuration management is the process of applying configuration management throughout the software life cycle to ensure the completeness and correctness of software configuration items. Software configuration management applies technical and administrative direction and surveillance to: identify and document the functional and physical characteristics of software configuration items, control changes to those characteristics, record and report change processing and implementation status, and verify compliance with specified requirements. Software configuration management establishes and maintains the integrity of the products of a software project throughout the software life cycle. Use of standard Center or organizational software configuration management processes and procedures is encouraged where applicable.

4.1.1 The project shall develop a Software Configuration Management Plan that describes the functions, responsibilities, and authority for the implementation of software configuration management for the project. [SWE-079]

Note: The Software Configuration Management Plan may be a part of the project configuration management plan. The content is defined by the requirement in Chapter 5.

4.1.2 The project shall track and evaluate changes to software products. [SWE-080]

Note: The project can use a software change request system or a software problem tracking system. The minimum content for software change requests or a software problem report is defined in Chapter 5.

4.1.3 The project shall identify the software configuration items (e.g., software documents, code, data, tools, models, scripts) and their versions to be controlled for the project. [SWE-081]

Note: The project is responsible for assuring that software safety elements are properly identified and controlled.

4.1.4 The project shall establish and implement procedures designating the levels of control each identified configuration item must pass through; the persons or groups with authority to authorize changes and to make changes at each level; and the steps to be followed to request authorization for changes, process change requests, track changes, distribute changes, and maintain past versions. [SWE-082]

4.1.5 The project shall prepare and maintain records of the configuration status of configuration items. [SWE-083]

Note: Configuration status accounting generates and/or maintains records of the status and contents of the software throughout the life cycle. This function keeps track of the changes and the contents of versions and releases.

4.1.6 The project shall ensure that software configuration audits are performed to determine the correct version of the configuration items and verify that they conform to the documents that define them. [SWE-084]

4.1.7 The project shall establish and implement procedures for the storage, handling, delivery, release, and maintenance of deliverable software products. [SWE-085]

## 4.2 Risk Management

Identification and management of risks provide a basis for systematically examining changing situations over time to uncover and correct circumstances that impact the ability of the project to meet its objectives.

4.2.1 The project shall identify, analyze, plan, track, control, communicate, and document software risks in accordance with NPR 8000.4, Agency Risk Management Procedural Requirements. [SWE-086]

Note: A project needs to include an assessment of the risk that any untested code poses to the system or subsystem.

## 4.3 Software Peer Reviews/Inspections

Software peer reviews and inspections are the in-process technical examination of work products by peers to find and eliminate defects early in the life cycle. Software peer reviews/inspections are performed following defined procedures covering the preparation for the review, conducting the review itself, documenting results, reporting the results, and certifying the completion criteria. When planning the composition of a software peer review/inspection team consider including software testing, system testing, software assurance, software safety, and software Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) personnel.

4.3.1 The project shall perform and report on software peer reviews/inspections for: [SWE-087]

a. Software requirements.

b. Software Test Plan.

c. Any design items that the project identified for software peer review/inspections according to the software development plans.

d. Software code as defined in the software and or project plans.

Note: Software peer reviews/inspections are a recommended best practice for all safety and mission-success related design and code software components. Guidelines for software peer reviews/inspections are contained in NASA-STD-2202-93, NASA Software Formal Inspection Standard.

4.3.2 The project shall perform and report on software peer reviews/inspections for: [SWE-137]

a. Software Development or Management Plan.

b. Software Configuration Management Plan.

c. Software Maintenance Plan.

d. Software Assurance Plan.

e. Software Safety Plan.

4.3.3 The project shall, for each planned software peer review/inspections: [SWE-088]

a. Use a checklist to evaluate the work products.

b. Use established readiness and completion criteria.

c. Track actions identified in the reviews until they are resolved.

d. Identify required participants.

4.3.4 The project shall, for each planned software peer review/inspection, record basic measurements. [SWE-089]

Note: The requirement for the content of a Software Peer Review/Inspection Report is defined in Chapter 5.

## 4.4 Software Measurement

Software measurement programs at multiple levels are established to meet measurement objectives. The requirements below are designed to establish measurement programs at the project and the Mission Directorate levels to assist in managing projects, assuring quality, and improving software engineering practices. Project-level and Mission Directorate/Mission Support Office-level (product line) measurement programs are designed to meet the following high-level goals:

a. To improve future planning and cost estimation.

b. To provide realistic data for progress tracking.

c. To provide indicators of software quality.

d. To provide baseline information for future process improvement activities.

Additional measures can be defined by either the projects or the Mission Directorate/Mission Support Office, based on any additional high-level goals they may have.

4.4.1 The project shall establish and document specific measurement objectives for their project. [SWE-090]

4.4.2 The project shall select and record the selection of specific measures in the following areas: [SWE-091]

a. Software progress tracking.

b. Software functionality.

c. Software quality.

d. Software requirements volatility.

e. Software characteristics.

Note: The requirement for a Software Metrics Report is defined in Chapter 5.

4.4.3 The project shall specify and record data collection and storage procedures for their selected software measures and collect and store measures accordingly. [SWE-092]

4.4.4 The project shall analyze software measurement data collected using documented project-specified and Center/organizational analysis procedures. [SWE-093]

4.4.5 The project shall report measurement analysis results periodically and allow access to measurement information by Center-defined organizational measurement programs. [SWE-094]

4.4.6 Each NASA Mission Directorate shall establish its own software measurement system to include the minimum reporting requirements in SWE-091. [SWE-095]

4.4.7 Each NASA Mission Directorate shall identify and document the specific measurement objectives, the chosen specific measures, the collection procedures, and storage and analysis procedures. [SWE-096]

[Requirement number SWE-097 is reserved]

## 4.5 Best Practices

Best practices that are collected by the software community are a resource for improving software products. Ensuring an awareness of these practices can often provide potential solutions to problems. Successful best practices also provide alternate approaches for an individual project to consider, given its scope, domain, and goals. The intent of organizational best practices is not to mandate the use of any specific practice, but to provide information and examples to each project so that it can evaluate and choose those practices that it deems most beneficial. The identified best practices can then be used to improve the life-cycle processes for future software product improvement purposes.

4.5.1 The NASA Headquarters' Office of the Chief Engineer shall maintain an Agency-wide process asset library of applicable best practices. [SWE-098]

Note: The Agency-level process assets can be viewed from the NASA Software Process Asset Library (PAL) Web site, http://swpal.nasa.gov/, from the NASA Software Engineering Web site at http://software.nasa.gov and from the NASA Engineering Network Web site at http://nen.nasa.gov/portal/site/llis/OCE/. The repository may contain information in many forms including, but not limited to, processes, Web sites, design principles, books, periodicals, presentations, tools, examples of documents, and conference descriptions.

4.5.2 Each Center shall review the contents of the process asset library to identify those practices that may have direct applicability and value to its software activities. [SWE-099]

## 4.6 Training

Having properly trained personnel is one of the key items that can lead to success of software engineering projects. The goal is to maintain and advance organizational capability for training of personnel that perform software engineering practices to effectively meet scientific and technological objectives. The Software Training Plan includes training in the following software activities: software management, software acquisition, software monitoring, software development, software safety and mission assurance, and software process improvement.

4.6.1 The NASA Headquarters' Office of the Chief Engineer and Center training organizations shall provide and fund training to advance software engineering practices and software acquisition. [SWE-100]

4.6.2 Each Center shall maintain and implement Software Training Plan(s) to advance its in-house software engineering capability and as a reference for its contractors. [SWE-101]

Note: The Software Training Plan content is defined by the Software Training Plan requirement in Chapter 5.

  

# Chapter 5: Software Documentation Requirements

Use of NASA Center and contractor formats in document deliverables will be acceptable if required content is addressed. Documents can be combined if required content is addressed. Specific content within these documents may not be applicable for every project. Non-applicable content areas will be clearly noted in project documentation. These non-applicable documentation decisions may be reviewed by external organizations. Product documentation are reviewed and updated as necessary.

## 5.1 Software Plans

5.1.1 Software Development or Management Plan.

The Software Development or Management Plan provides insight into, and a tool for monitoring, the processes to be followed for software development, the methods to be used, the approach to be followed for each activity, and project schedules, organization, and resources. This plan details the system software, project documentation, project schedules, resources requirements and constraints, and general and detailed software development activities.

5.1.1.1 The Software Development or Management Plan shall contain: [SWE-102]

a. Project organizational structure showing authority and responsibility of each organizational unit, including external organizations (e.g., Safety and Mission Assurance, Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V), Technical Authority, NASA Engineering and Safety Center, NASA Safety Center).

b. The safety criticality and classification of each of the systems and subsystems containing software.

c. Tailoring compliance matrix for approval by the designated Engineering Technical Authority, if the project has any waivers or deviations to this NPR.

d. Engineering environment (for development, operation, or maintenance, as applicable), including test environment, library, equipment, facilities, standards, procedures, and tools.

e. Work breakdown structure of the life-cycle processes and activities, including the software products, software services, non-deliverable items to be performed, budgets, staffing, acquisition approach, physical resources, software size, and schedules associated with the tasks.

f. Management of the quality characteristics of the software products or services.

g. Management of safety, security, privacy, and other critical requirements of the software products or services.

h. Subcontractor management, including subcontractor selection and involvement between the subcontractor and the acquirer, if any.

i. Verification and validation.

j. Acquirer involvement.

k. User involvement.

l. Risk management.

m. Security policy.

n. Approval required by such means as regulations, required certifications, proprietary, usage, ownership, warranty, and licensing rights.

o. Process for scheduling, tracking, and reporting.

p. Training of personnel, including project unique software training needs.

q. Software life-cycle model, including description of software integration and hardware/software integration processes, software delivery, and maintenance.

r. Configuration management.

s. Software documentation tree.

t. Software peer review/inspection process of software work products.

u. Process for early identification of testing requirements that drive software design decisions (e.g., special system level timing requirements/checkpoint restart).

v. Software metrics.

w. Content of software documentation to be developed on the project.

x. Management, development, and testing approach for handling any commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS), government-off-the-shelf (GOTS), modified-off-the-shelf (MOTS), reused, or open source software component(s) that are included within a NASA system or subsystem.

Note: Verification includes:

a. Identification of selected software verification methods and criteria across the life cycle (e.g., software peer review/inspections procedures, re-review/inspection criteria, testing procedures).

b. Identification of selected work products to be verified.

c. Description of software verification environments that are to be established for the project (e.g., software testing environment, system testing environment, regression testing environment).

d. Identification of where actual software verification records and analysis of the results will be documented (e.g., test records, software peer review/inspection records) and where software verification corrective action will be documented.

Note: Validation includes:

a. Identification of selected software validation methods and criteria across the life cycle (e.g., prototyping, user groups, simulation, analysis, acceptance testing, operational demonstrations).

b. Identification of selected work products to be validated.

c. Description of software validation environments that are to be established for the project (e.g., simulators for operational environment).

d. Identification of where actual software validation records and analysis of the results will be documented (e.g., user group records, prototyping records, and acceptance testing records) and where software validation corrective action will be documented.

5.1.2 Software Configuration Management Plan.

The Software Configuration Management Plan describes the functions, responsibilities, and authority for the accomplishment and implementation of software configuration management to be performed during the software life cycle. This plan identifies the required coordination of software configuration management activities with other activities of the project.

5.1.2.1 The Software Configuration Management Plan shall contain: [SWE-103]

a. The project organization(s).

b. Responsibilities of the software configuration management organization.

c. References to the software configuration management policies and directives that apply to the project.

d. All functions and tasks required to manage the configuration of the software, including configuration identification, configuration control, status accounting, and configuration audits and reviews.

e. Schedule information, which establishes the sequence and coordination for the identified activities and for all events affecting the plan's implementation.

f. Resource information, which identifies the software tools, techniques, and equipment necessary for the implementation of the activities.

g. Plan maintenance information, which identifies the activities and responsibilities necessary to ensure continued planning during the life cycle of the project.

h. Release management and delivery.

5.1.3 Software Test Plan

The Software Test Plan describes the plans for software component level testing, software integration testing, software qualification testing, and system qualification testing of software systems. The plan describes the software test environment to be used for testing, identifies the tests to be performed, and provides schedules for environment, development, and test activities. The plan provides an overview of software testing, test schedules, and test management procedures.

5.1.3.1 The Software Test Plan shall include: [SWE-104]

a. Test levels (separate test effort that has its own documentation and resources, e.g., component, integration, and system testing).

b. Test types:

(1) Unit testing.

(2) Software integration testing.

(3) Systems integration testing.

(4) End-to-end testing.

(5) Acceptance testing.

(6) Regression testing.

c. Test classes (designated grouping of test cases).

d. General test conditions.

e. Test progression.

f. Data recording, reduction, and analysis.

g. Test coverage (breadth and depth) or other methods for ensuring sufficiency of testing.

h. Planned tests, including items and their identifiers.

i. Test schedules.

j. Requirements traceability (or verification matrix).

k. Qualification testing environment, site, personnel, and participating organizations.

5.1.4 Software Maintenance Plan.

The Software Maintenance Plan provides insight into the method, approach, responsibility, and processes to be followed for maintenance of software and its associated documentation. For the Software Maintenance Plan, provide separate volumes for each system element (e.g., ground operations, flight operations, mission operations, and spacecraft).

5.1.4.1 The Software Maintenance Plan shall include: [SWE-105]

a. Plan information for the following activities:

(1) Maintenance process implementation.

(2) Problem and modification analysis.

(3) Modification implementation.

(4) Maintenance review/acceptance.

(5) Migration.

(6) Software Retirement.

(7) Software Assurance.

(8) Software Risk Assessment for all changes made during maintenance and operations.

b. Specific standards, methods, tools, actions, procedures, and responsibilities associated with the maintenance process. In addition, the following elements are included:

(1) Development and tracking of required upgrade intervals, including implementation plan.

(2) Approach for the scheduling, implementation, and tracking of software upgrades.

(3) Equipment and laboratories required for software verification and implementation.

(4) Updates to documentation for modified software components.

(5) Licensing agreements for software components.

(6) Plan for and tracking of operational backup software (e.g., backup flight software, backup to the primary operational software).

(7) Approach for the implementation of modifications to operational software (e.g., testing of software in development laboratory prior to operational use).

(8) Approach for software delivery process, including distribution to facilities and users of the software products and installation of the software in the target environment (including, but not limited to, spacecraft, simulators, Mission Control Center, and ground operations facilities).

(9) Approach for providing NASA access to the software version description data (e.g., revision number, licensing agreement).

5.1.5 Software Assurance Plan.

The Software Assurance Plan details the procedures, reviews, and audits required to accomplish software assurance. The project office should coordinate with the Office of Safety and Mission Assurance for help in scoping and adapting the effort appropriately, and to designate the individual responsible for software assurance on the project.

5.1.5.1 The Software Assurance Plan(s) shall be developed and documented per NASA-STD-8739.8, NASA Software Assurance Standard. [SWE-106]

5.1.6 Center Software Training Plan.

5.1.6.1 The Center Software Training Plan shall include: [SWE-107]

a. Responsibilities.

b. Implementation.

c. Records and forms.

d. Training resources.

e. Minimum training requirements for software personnel.

f. Training class availabilities.

5.1.7 Center Software Engineering Improvement Plans

5.1.7.1 The Center Software Engineering Improvement Plans shall include: [SWE-108]

a. Process improvement goal(s).

b. Scope of process improvement.

c. All Center organizations responsible for the performance of mission-critical software development, management, and acquisition.

d. The Center's tactic for phasing in improvements (e.g., domain phasing and organizational phasing).

e. Ownership of Center Software Engineering Improvement Plan.

f. The Center's tactic for monitoring Center Software Engineering Improvement Plan progress, including responsibilities.

g. Strategies and objectives.

h. The Center's tactic for supporting the implementation of all strategies of the NASA Software Engineering Initiative Implementation Plan.

i. Schedule.

j. The Center's tactic or approach for phasing in new and upgraded NASA Headquarters requirements.

5.1.8 IV&V Project Execution Plan (IPEP).

The IPEP is divided into two major parts: the body of the document and the appendices. The body includes mission overview, IV&V goals and objectives, high-level description of the IV&V approach, associated milestones, activities and deliverables, resources, roles and responsibilities, and lines of communication to establish a formal mutual agreement, as necessary to execute the project. The appendices include information that will change over the course of the effort and include schedules, relevant IV&V Portfolio Based Risk Assessment (PBRA) results, IV&V Coverage Diagram Data, and an acronym list. Additional information on the IV&V PBRA and IPEP may be found in the NASA IV&V Management System, located at: http://www.nasa.gov/centers/ivv/ims/home/index.html.

5.1.9 Software Safety Plan.

This document details the activities, general relative schedule of needed activities, communication paths, and responsibilities for performing software safety activities as part of the systems safety program. This does not have to be a stand-alone document, but could be included as part of the systems safety plan or, for small projects, an overall assurance plan. While it may be developed either by the program/project/facility office or by the safety personnel within the Center Safety and Mission Assurance (SMA) organization(s), both the project or facility office and the Center SMA organization must concur.

5.1.9.1 The Software Safety Plan(s) shall be developed per NASA-STD-8719.13, Software Safety Standard. [SWE-138]

## 5.2 Software Requirements and Product Data

5.2.1 Software Requirements Specification.

The Software Requirements Specification details the software performance, interface, and operational and quality assurance requirements for each computer software configuration items (CSCI).

Note: Software requirements and design specifications need not be textual and may include representations in rigorous specification languages, graphical representations, or specifications suitable for requirements or design analysis tools or methodologies.

5.2.1.1 The Software Requirements Specification shall contain: [SWE-109]

a. System overview.

b. CSCI requirements:

(1) Functional requirements.

(2) Required states and modes.

(3) External interface requirements.

(4) Internal interface requirements.

(5) Internal data requirements.

(6) Adaptation requirements (data used to adapt a program to a given installation site or to given conditions in its operational environment).

(7) Safety requirements.

(8) Performance and timing requirements.

(9) Security and privacy requirements.

(10) Environment requirements.

(11) Computer resource requirements:

(a) Computer hardware resource requirements, including utilization requirements.

(b) Computer software requirements.

(c) Computer communications requirements.

(12) Software quality characteristics.

(13) Design and implementation constraints.

(14) Personnel-related requirements.

(15) Training-related requirements.

(16) Logistics-related requirements.

(17) Packaging requirements.

(18) Precedence and criticality of requirements.

c. Qualification provisions (e.g., demonstration, test, analysis, inspection).

d. Bidirectional requirements traceability.

e. Requirements partitioning for phased delivery.

f. Testing requirements that drive software design decisions (e.g., special system level timing requirements/checkpoint restart).

g. Supporting requirements rationale.

5.2.2 Software Data Dictionary.

5.2.2.1 The Software Data Dictionary shall include: [SWE-110]

a. Channelization data (e.g., bus mapping, vehicle wiring mapping, hardware channelization).

b. Input/Output (I/O) variables.

c. Rate group data.

d. Raw and calibrated sensor data.

e. Telemetry format/layout and data.

f. Data recorder format/layout and data.

g. Command definition (e.g., onboard, ground, test specific).

h. Effecter command information.

i. Operational limits (e.g., maximum/minimum values, launch commit criteria information).

5.2.3 Software Design Description.

The Software Design Description describes the design of a CSCI. It describes the CSCI-wide design decisions, the CSCI architectural design, and the detailed design needed to implement the software.

5.2.3.1 The Software Design Description shall include: [SWE-111]

a. CSCI-wide design decisions/trade decisions.

b. CSCI architectural design.

c. CSCI decomposition and interrelationship between components:

(1) CSCI components:

(a) Description of how the software item satisfies the software requirements, including algorithms, data structures, and functional decomposition.

(b) Software item I/O description.

(c) Static/architectural relationship of the software units.

(d) Concept of execution, including data flow, control flow, and timing.

(e) Requirements, design and code traceability.

(f) CSCI's planned utilization of computer hardware resources.

(2) Rationale for software item design decisions/trade decisions including assumptions, limitations, safety and reliability related items/concerns or constraints in design documentation.

(3) Interface design.

Note: The documentation of the architectural design of a software system identifies and describes the architectural elements of the software, the external interfaces, and the interfaces between elements. The description includes element responsibilities (constraints on inputs and guarantees on outputs), and constraints on how the elements interact (such as message and data sharing protocols). The architectural design documentation includes multiple views of the architecture and identifies and supports the evaluation of the key quality attributes of the planned software product. The key quality attributes of the software will depend on the mission in which the software is to be used and the manner in which it is to be developed and deployed. They will usually include: performance, availability, maintainability, modifiability, security, testability and usability (operability.)

5.2.4 Interface Design Description.

The Interface Design Description describes the interface characteristics of one or more systems, subsystems, Hardware Configuration Item (HWCI's), CSCI's, manual operations, or other system components. An interface design description may describe any number of interfaces.

5.2.4.1 The Interface Design Description shall include: [SWE-112]

a. Priority assigned to the interface by the interfacing entity(ies).

b. Type of interface (e.g., real-time data transfer, storage-and-retrieval of data) to be implemented.

c. Specification of individual data elements (e.g., format and data content, including bit-level descriptions of data interface) that the interfacing entity(ies) will provide, store, send, access, and receive.

d. Specification of individual data element assemblies (e.g., records, arrays, files, reports) that the interfacing entity(ies) will provide, store, send, access, and receive.

e. Specification of communication methods that the interfacing entity(ies) will use for the interface.

f. Specification of protocols the interfacing entity(ies) will use for the interface.

g. Other specifications, such as physical compatibility of the interfacing entity(ies).

h. Traceability from each interfacing entity to the system or CSCI requirements addressed by the entity's interface design, and traceability from each system or CSCI requirement to the interfacing entities that address it.

i. Interface compatibility.

j. Safety-related interface specifications and design features.

5.2.5 Software Change Request/Problem Report.

5.2.5.1 The Software Change Request/Problem Report shall contain: [SWE-113]

a. Identification of the software item.

b. Description of the problem or change to enable problem resolution or justification for and the nature of the change, including: assumptions/ constraints and change to correct software error.

c. Originator of Software Change Request/Problem Report and originator's assessment of priority/severity.

d. Description of the corrective action taken to resolve the reported problem or analysis and evaluation of the change or problem, changed software configuration item, schedules, cost, products, or test.

e. Life-cycle phase in which problem was discovered or in which change was requested.

f. Approval or disapproval of Software Change Request/Problem Report.

g. Verification of the implementation and release of modified system.

h. Date problem discovered.

i. Status of problem.

j. Identify any safety-related aspects/considerations/ impacts associated with the proposed change and/or identified problem.

k. Configuration of system and software when problem is identified (e.g., system/software configuration identifier or list of components and their versions).

l. Any workaround to the problem that can be used while a change is being developed or tested.

Note: The Software Change Request/Problem Report provides a means for identifying and recording the resolution to software anomalous behavior, process non-compliance with plans and standards, and deficiencies in life-cycle data or for identifying and recording the implementation of a change or modification in a software item.

5.2.6 Software Test Procedures.

The Software Test Procedures describe the test preparations, test cases, and test procedures to be used to perform qualification testing of a CSCI or a software system or subsystem.

5.2.6.1 The Software Test Procedures shall contain: [SWE-114]

a. Test preparations, including hardware and software.

b. Test descriptions, including:

(1) Test identifier.

(2) System or CSCI requirements addressed by the test case.

(3) Prerequisite conditions.

(4) Test input.

(5) Instructions for conducting procedure.

(6) Expected test results, including assumptions and constraints.

(7) Criteria for evaluating results.

c. Requirements traceability.

d. Identification of test configuration.

5.2.7 Software User Manual.

The Software User Manual defines user instructions for the software.

5.2.7.1 The Software User Manual shall contain: [SWE-115]

a. Software summary, including: application, inventory, environment, organization, overview of operation, contingencies, alternate states, and modes of operation, security, privacy, assistance, and problem reporting.

b. Access to the software: first-time user of the software, initiating a session, and stopping and suspending work.

c. Processing reference guide: capabilities, conventions, processing procedures, related processing, data back up, recovery from errors, malfunctions, emergencies, and messages.

d. Assumptions, limitations, and safety-related items/concerns or constraints.

e. Information that is unique or specific for each version of the software (e.g., new and modified features, new and modified interfaces).

5.2.8 Software Version Description.

The Software Version Description identifies and describes a software version consisting of one or more CSCIs (including any open source software). The description is used to release, track, and control a software version.

5.2.8.1 The Software Version Description shall identify and provide: [SWE-116]

a. Full identification of the system and software (e.g., numbers, titles, abbreviations, version numbers, and release numbers).

b. Executable software (e.g., batch files, command files, data files, or other software needed to install the software on its target computer).

c. Software life-cycle data that defines the software product.

d. Archive and release data.

e. Instructions for building the executable software, including, for example, the instructions and data for compiling and linking and the procedures used for software recovery, software regeneration, testing, or modification.

f. Data integrity checks for the executable object code and source code.

g. Software product files (any files needed to install, build, operate, and maintain the software).

h. Open change requests and or problem reports, including any workarounds.

i. Change requests and/or problem reports implemented in the current software version since the last Software Version Description was published.

## 5.3 Software Reports

5.3.1 Software Metrics Report.

The Software Metrics Report provides data to the project for the assessment of software cost, technical, and schedule progress. The Software Metrics Report shall contain as a minimum the following information tracked on a CSCI basis: [SWE-117]

a. Software progress tracking measures.

b. Software functionality measures.

c. Software quality measures.

d. Software requirement volatility.

e. Software characteristics.

Note: An example set of software progress tracking measures that meet 5.3.1.a include, but are not limited to:

a. Software resources such as budget and effort (planned vs. actual).

b. Software development schedule tasks (e.g., milestones) (planned vs. actual).

c. Implementation status information (e.g., number of computer software units in design phase, coded, unit tested, and integrated into computer software configuration item versus planned).

d. Test status information (e.g., number of tests developed, executed, passed).

e. Number of replans/baselines performed.

Note: An example set of software functionality measures that meet 5.3.1.b include, but are not limited to:

a. Number of requirements included in a completed build/release (planned vs. actual).

b. Function points (planned vs. actual).

Note: An example set of software quality measures that meet 5.3.1.c include, but are not limited to:

a. Number of software Problem Reports/Change Requests (new, open, closed, severity).

b. Review of item discrepancies (open, closed, and withdrawn).

c. Number of software peer reviews/inspections (planned vs. actual).

d. Software peer review/inspection information (e.g., effort, review rate, defect data).

e. Number of software audits (planned vs. actual).

f. Software audit findings information (e.g., number and classification of findings).

g. Software risks and mitigations.

h. Number of requirements verified or status of requirements validation.

i. Results from static code analysis tools.

Note: An example set of software requirement volatility measures that meet 5.3.1.d include, but are not limited to:

a. Number of software requirements.

b. Number of software requirements changes (additions, modifications, deletions) per month.

c. Number of "to be determined" items.

Note: An example set of software characteristics that meet 5.3.1.e include, but are not limited to:

a. Project name.

b. Language.

c. Software domain (flight software, ground software, Web application).

d. Number of source lines of code by categories (e.g., new, modified, reuse) (planned vs. actual).

e. Computer resource utilization in percentage of capacity.

Note: Other information may be provided at the supplier's discretion to assist in evaluating the cost, technical, and schedule performance; e.g., innovative processes and cost reduction initiatives.

5.3.2 Software Test Report.

The Software Test Report is a record of the qualification testing performed on a CSCI, a software system or subsystem, or other software-related item.

5.3.2.1 The Software Test Report shall include: [SWE-118]

a. Overview of the test results:

(1) Overall evaluation of the software as shown by the test results.

(2) Remaining deficiencies, limitations, or constraints detected by testing (e.g., including description of the impact on software and system performance, the impact a correction would have on software and system design, and recommendations for correcting the deficiency, limitation, or constraint).

(3) Impact of test environment.

b. Detailed test results:

(1) Project-unique identifier of a test and test procedure(s).

(2) Summary of test results (e.g., including requirements verified).

(3) Problems encountered.

(4) Deviations from test cases/procedures.

c. Test log:

(1) Date(s), time(s), and location(s) of tests performed.

(2) Test environment, hardware, and software configurations used for each test.

(3) Date and time of each test-related activity, the identity of the individual(s) who performed the activity, and the identities of witnesses, as applicable.

d. Rationale for decisions.

5.3.3 Software Peer Review/Inspection Report.

5.3.3.1 The Software Peer Review/Inspection Report shall include: [SWE-119]

a. Identification information (including item being reviewed/inspected, review/inspection type (e.g., requirements inspection, code inspection, etc.) and review/inspection time and date).

b. Summary on total time expended on each software peer review/inspection (including total hour summary and time participants spent reviewing/inspecting the product individually).

c. Participant information (including total number of participants and participant's area of expertise).

d. Total number of defects found (including the total number of major defects, total number of minor defects, and the number of defects in each type such as accuracy, consistency, completeness).

e. Peer review/inspection results summary (i.e., pass, re-inspection required).

f. Listing of all review/inspection defects.

  

# Chapter 6: Tailoring, Engineering Technical Authority, and Compliance Measurement

This NPR provides software engineering requirements to be applied throughout NASA and its contractor community. To accommodate the wide variety of software systems and subsystems, application of these requirements to specific projects will be evaluated and implemented for each project, with alternate acceptable requirements being applied where justified and approved. To effectively maintain control over the application of requirements in this NPR and to ensure proposed variants from specific requirements are appropriately mitigated, NASA has established an Engineering Technical Authority. Waivers and deviations from requirements in this NPR are governed by the following requirements as well as ones established in NPD 1000.3 and NPR 7120.5 for all of the Agency's investment areas. The Engineering Technical Authority (i.e., NASA Headquarters Chief Engineer, Center Director, or designee) for each requirement in this NPR is documented in the last column of Appendix D: Requirements Mapping Matrix. NASA Headquarters' Chief, Safety and Mission Assurance has co-approval on any waiver or deviation decided at the Headquarters level that involves safety-critical software. NASA Headquarters Chief Medical Officer has co-approval on any waiver or deviation decided at the Headquarters level that involves software with health and medical implications. Waivers and deviations decided at the Center level are to follow similar protocol when software safety critical or health and medical issues are involved.

## 6.1 Tailoring of Requirements

NASA Centers are expected to establish rigorous software engineering practices for software developed or acquired by projects managed at those Centers. In cases where these Center practices are formal, enforced, and meet or exceed the requirements of this NPR, the requirements allocated to "projects" in this NPR and the data items in Chapter 5 can be replaced by specific Center-level requirements approved by the designated Engineering Technical Authority.

6.1.1 For those cases in which a Center or project desires a general exclusion from requirement(s) in this NPR or desires to generically apply specific alternate requirements that do not meet or exceed the requirements of this NPR, the requester shall submit a waiver for those exclusions or alternate requirements for approval by the NASA Headquarters' Chief Engineer with appropriate justification. [SWE-120]

Note: This type of waiver (which is approved by the NASA Headquarters' Chief Engineer) is for generic/blanket relief from a requirement for a Center, Center organization, or multiple projects over an extended time. Generic/blanket waivers are not to be confused with normal waivers that address relief from a requirement on a single project or in a specific instance (which can be approved at the Center level if so specified in last column of Appendix D).

6.1.2 Where approved, the requesting Center or project shall document the approved alternate requirement in the procedure controlling the development, acquisition, and/ or deployment of the affected software. [SWE-121]

## 6.2 Designation of Engineering Technical Authority(s)

6.2.1 The designated Engineering Technical Authority(s) for requirements in this NPR, which can be waived at the Center level, shall be approved by the Center Director. [SWE-122]

Note: The designated Engineering Technical Authority(s) for this NPR is a recognized NASA software engineering expert. Typically, Center Directors designate an Engineering Technical Authority for software from their engineering organization for software classes A through E, from the NASA Headquarters' Office of the Chief Information Officer (CIO) for Class F, and from their Center CIO organization for classes G through H. The designation of Engineering Technical Authority(s) is documented in the Center Technical Authority Implementation Plan. Please refer to Appendix D (last column) for requirements that can be waived at the Center level.

[Requirement number SWE-123 is reserved]

## 6.3 Compliance

6.3.1 The designated Center Engineering Technical Authority(s) for this NPR shall comply with NASA Headquarters' Office of the Chief Engineer's direction on roles and responsibilities for Engineering Technical Authority. [SWE-124]

Note: Top-level direction on Engineering Technical Authority for all of the Agency's investment areas (including activities performed under NPR 7120.7 and NPR 7120.8) is documented in NPR 7120.5 and elaborated for software in this NPR.

6.3.2 Each project with software components shall maintain a compliance matrix against requirements in this NPR, including those delegated to other parties or accomplished by contract vehicles. [SWE-125]

Note: The compliance matrix documents the requirements that the project plans to meet and any approved waivers or deviations. The compliance matrix and compliance matrix updates should be submitted to the designated Center level Engineering Technical Authority for their records.

6.3.3 The Engineering Technical Authority(s) for this NPR shall consider the following information when assessing waivers and deviations from requirements in this NPR: [SWE-126]

a. The NASA software inventory data on the project.

b. The classification of systems and subsystems containing software, as defined in Appendix E.

c. Applicable Center-level software directives that meet the intent of this NPR.

d. Applicable contractor and subcontractor software policies and procedures that meet the intent of this NPR.

e. Potential impacts to NASA missions.

f. Potential impacts to health, medical concerns, or safety.

6.3.4 Centers and projects shall fully comply with the "shall" statements in this NPR that are marked with an "X" in Appendix D consistent with their software classification. [SWE-139]

Note: If the requirement is marked with a "SO" in appendix D, the project is required to meet the requirement to the extent necessary to satisfy the safety critical aspects of the software.

6.3.5 When the requirement and software class are marked with a "P (Center)," Centers and projects shall meet the requirement with an approved non-null subset of the "shall" statement (or approved alternate) for that specific requirement. [SWE 140]

Note: The use of partial Center (i.e., "P (Center)") requirements allows for local adaptations to suit Center and application unique needs. Although the NASA Headquarters' Office of the Chief Engineer is the review and concurrence authority for the Center defined "P (Center)" requirements, this approval does not constitute a deviation nor a waiver. The project or Center is responsible for flowing down all applicable NPR 7150.2 requirements, including "P (Center)" requirements, to contracted software development activities. "P (Center)" requirements are typically documented in Center-level directives.

6.3.6 The NASA Headquarters' Office of the Chief Engineer shall review and have concurrence approval when a Center defines subsets of requirements denoted by "P (Center)" in the Requirements Mapping Matrix in Appendix D for the indicated classes of software. [SWE-127]

6.3.7 The Center-level Engineering Technical Authority shall keep records of projects' compliance matrices, waivers, and deviations against this NPR. [SWE-128]

6.3.8 The NASA Headquarters' Office of the Chief Engineer shall authorize appraisals against selected requirements in this NPR (including NASA Headquarters' Office of the Chief Engineer approved subsets and alternative sets of requirements) to check compliance. [SWE-129]

  

# Appendix A. Definitions

A.1 **Accuracy**. The difference between a parameter or variable (or a set of parameters or variables) within a model, simulation, or experiment and the true value or the assumed true value (Definition from source document: NASA-STD-7009, Standard for Models and Simulations.).

A.2 **Accredit**. The official acceptance of a software development tool, model, or simulation, (including associated data) to use for a specific purpose.

A.3 **Analysis**. The post-processing or interpretation of the individual values, arrays, files of data, or execution information.

A.4 **Contracted Software**. Software created for a project by a contractor or subcontractor.

A.5 **Data**. Information for computer processing (e.g., numbers, text, images, and sounds in a form that is suitable for storage in or processing by a computer).

A.6 **Deviation**. A documented authorization releasing a program or project from meeting a requirement before the requirement is put under configuration control at the level the requirement will be implemented.

A.7 **Embedded Software**. Software that is part of a larger system and performs some of the requirements of that system (Definition from source document: ISO/IEC 24765:2009 Systems and Software Engineering Vocabulary.).

A.8 **Establish and Maintain**. The responsible project, organization, or individual must formulate, document, use/deploy, and keep current the object (usually a document, requirement, process, or policy).

A.9 **Glueware**. Software created to connect the off-the-shelf software/reused software with the rest of the system. It may take the form of "adapters" that modify interfaces or add missing functionality, "firewalls" that isolate the off-the-shelf software, or "wrappers" that check inputs and outputs to the off-the-shelf software and may modify to prevent failures.

A.10 **Government Off-The-Shelf (GOTS) Software**. This refers to Government-created software, usually from another project. The software was not created by the current developers (see software reuse). Usually, source code is included and documentation, including test and analysis results, is available. That is, the government is responsible for the GOTS software to be incorporated into another system. (Definition from source document: NASA-GB-8719.13, NASA Software Safety Guidebook.)

A.11 **Insight**. Surveillance mode requiring the monitoring of customer-identified metrics and contracted milestones. Insight is a continuum that can range from low intensity, such as reviewing quarterly reports, to high intensity, such as performing surveys and reviews. (Definitions from source document: NPR 8735.2, Management of Government Safety and Mission Quality Assurance Surveillance Functions for NASA Contracts.)

A.12 **Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V)**. Verification and validation performed by an organization that is technically, managerially, and financially independent of the development organization (ISO/IEC 24765:2008 systems and software engineering vocabulary).

A.13 **Legacy/Heritage**. Software products (architecture, code, requirements) written specifically for one project and then, without prior planning during its initial development, found to be useful on other projects. See software reuse.

A.14 **Major Engineering/Research Facility**. Used in this document to show research, development, test, or simulation facilities representing a significant NASA investment which contains software that supports programs and projects managed under NPR 7120.5, NPR 7120.7, or NPR 7120.8. Examples include: high-fidelity, motion-base flight simulator facilities (e.g., Vertical Motion Simulator at Ames), wind tunnels (e.g., National Transonic Facility at LaRC), vacuum chambers (e.g., Space Power Facility at GRC/Plum Brook), air traffic control facilities (e.g., North Texas Research Station), and engine test stands (e.g., J-2X test stand at Stennis Space Center). Related major facility designations are contained in NPR 8800.15, Section 3.8.1, Designation of Major Facilities.

A.15 **Mathematical Model**. The mathematical equations, boundary values, initial conditions, and modeling data needed to describe the conceptual model (ASME V&V 10). (Definition from source document: NASA-STD-7009, Standard for Models and Simulations.)

A.16 **Mission Critical**. Item or function that must retain its operational capability to assure no mission failure (i.e., for mission success). (Definition from source document: NPR 8715.3, NASA General Safety Manual Program Requirements.)

A.17 **Model**. A description or representation of a system, entity, phenomena, or process. (Definition from source document: NASA-STD-7009, Standard for Models and Simulations.) Only for the purpose of this document, the term "model" refers to only those models which are implemented in software.

A.18 **Modified Off-The-Shelf (MOTS) Software**. When COTS, legacy/heritage software is reused, or heritage software is changed, the product is considered "modified." The changes can include all or part of the software products and may involve additions, deletions, and specific alterations. An argument can be made that any alterations to the code and/or design of an off-the-shelf software component constitutes "modification," but the common usage allows for some percentage of change before the off-the-shelf software is declared to be MOTS software. This may include the changes to the application shell and/or glueware to add or protect against certain features and not to the off-the-shelf software system code directly. See off-the-shelf.

A.19 **Off-The-Shelf Software**. Software not developed in-house or by a contractor for the specific project now underway. The software is generally developed for a different purpose than the current project.

A.20 **Operational Software**. Software that has been accepted and deployed, delivered to its customer, or is deployed in its intended environment.

A.21 **Primary Mission Objectives**. Outcomes expected to be accomplished which are closely associated with the reason the mission was proposed, funded, developed, and operated (e.g., objectives related to top-level requirements or their flow down).

A.22 **Process Asset Library**. A collection of process asset holdings that can be used by an organization or project. (Definition from source document: CMMI® for- Systems Engineering/Software Engineering/Integrated Product and Process Development Supplier Sourcing.)

A.23 **Program**. A strategic investment by a Mission Directorate or Mission Support Office that has a defined architecture and/or technical approach, requirements, funding level, and a management structure that initiates and directs one or more projects. A program defines a strategic direction that the Agency has identified as critical.

A.24 **Project**. A specific investment having defined goals, objectives, requirements, life-cycle cost, a beginning, and an end. A project yields new or revised products or services that directly address NASA's strategic needs. They may be performed wholly in-house; by Government, industry, academia partnerships, or through contracts with private industry.

A.25 **Reuse**. See software reuse.

A.26 **Risk Management**. An organized, systematic decision-making process that efficiently identifies, analyzes, plans, tracks, controls, communicates, and documents risk to increase the likelihood of achieving program/project goals. (Definition from source document: NPR 8735.2, Management of Government Quality Safety and Mission Assurance Surveillance Functions for NASA Contracts.) Risk management includes Risk-Informed Decision Making and Continuous Risk Management in an integrated framework. This is done to foster proactive risk management, to better inform decision making through better use of risk information, and then to more effectively manage implementation risks by focusing the Continuous Risk Management process on the baseline performance requirements emerging from the Risk-Informed Decision-Making process. (Definition from source document: NPR 8000.4, Agency Risk Management Procedural Requirements.)

A.27 **Scripts**. A sequence of automated computer commands embedded in a program that tells the program to execute a specific procedure (e.g., files with monitoring, logic, or commands used by software to automate a process or procedure).

A.28 **Sensitivity Analysis**. The study of how the variation in the output of a model can be apportioned to different sources of variation in the model input and parameters. (Definition from source document: NASA-STD-7009, Standard for Models and Simulations.)

A.29 **Simulation**. The imitation of the characteristics of a system, entity, phenomena, or process using a computational model. (Definition from source document: NASA-STD-7009, Standard for Models and Simulations.) Only for the purpose of this document, the term "simulation" refers to only those simulations which are implemented in software.

A.30 **Software**. Computer programs, procedures, scripts, rules, and associated documentation and data pertaining to the development and operation of a computer system. Software includes programs and data. This also includes COTS, GOTS, MOTS, reused software, auto generated code, embedded software, firmware, and open source software components.

A.31 **Software Architecture**. The software architecture of a program or computing system is the structure or structures of the system, which comprise software components, the properties of those components, and the relationships between them. The term also refers to documentation of a system's software architecture. Documenting software architecture facilitates communication between stakeholders, documents early decisions about high-level design, and allows reuse of design components and patterns between projects.

A.32 **Safety-Critical Software**. See definition in NASA-STD-8719.13, Software Safety Standard.

A.33 **Software Engineering**. The application of a systematic, disciplined, quantifiable approach to the development, operation, and maintenance of software: that is, the application of engineering to software. (Definition from source document: IEEE 610.12-1990, IEEE Standard Glossary of Software Engineering Terminology.)

A.34 **Software Peer Review/Inspection**. A visual examination of a software product to detect and identify software anomalies, including errors and deviations from standards and specifications (IEEE 1028-2008 IEEE Standard for Software Reviews and Audits). Guidelines for software peer reviews/inspections are contained in NASA-STD-2202-93, NASA Software Formal Inspection Standard.

A.35 **Software Reuse**. A software product developed for one use but having other uses or one developed specifically to be usable on multiple projects or in multiple roles on one project. Examples include, but are not limited to, COTS products, acquirer-furnished software products, software products in reuse libraries, and pre-existing developer software products. Each use may include all or part of the software product and may involve its modification. This term can be applied to any software product (such as, requirements and architectures), not just to software code itself. Often this is software previously written by an in-house development team and used on a different project. GOTS software would come under this category if the product is supplied from one Government project to another Government project. (Definition from source document: NASA-GB-8719.13, NASA Software Safety Guidebook.)

A.36 **Software Validation**. Confirmation that the product, as provided (or as it will be provided), fulfills its intended use. In other words, validation ensures that "you built the right thing."

A.37 **Software Verification**. Confirmation that work products properly reflect the requirements specified for them. In other words, verification ensures that "you built it right."

A.38 **Static Analysis**. The process of evaluating a system or component based on its form, structure, content, or documentation. (Definition from source document: ISO/IEC 24765:2008 systems and software engineering vocabulary.)

A.39 **Subsystem**. A secondary or subordinate system within a larger system. (Definition from source document: ISO/IEC 24765:2008 systems and software engineering vocabulary.)

A.40 **System**. The combination of elements that function together to produce the capability required to meet a need. The elements include hardware, software, equipment, facilities, personnel, processes, and procedures needed for this purpose. (Definition from source document: NPR 7123.1A NASA Systems Engineering Processes and Requirements.)

A.41 **Uncertainty**. (1) The estimated amount or percentage by which an observed or calculated value may differ from the true value. (2) A broad and general term used to describe an imperfect state of knowledge or a variability resulting from a variety of factors including, but not limited to, lack of knowledge, applicability of information, physical variation, randomness or stochastic behavior, indeterminacy, judgment, and approximation (adapted from NPR 8715.3B, NASA General Safety Program Requirements).

A.42 **Waiver**. A documented authorization intentionally releasing a program or project from meeting a requirement after the requirement is put under configuration control at the level the requirement will be implemented.

A.43 **Wrapper**. See glueware definition.

  

# Appendix B. Acronyms

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| CAM/CAD | Computer-Aided Design and Computer-Aided Manufacturing |
| CDR | Critical Design Review |
| CMMI® | Capability Maturity Model Integration |
| CMMI-DEV | Capability Maturity Model® Integration® (CMMI®) for Development |
| CMU | Carnegie Mellon University |
| COTS | Commercial-Off-The-Shelf |
| CSCI | Computer Software Configuration Item |
| EDL | Entry, Descent, and Landing |
| EVA | Extra Vehicular Activity |
| FAR | Federal Acquisition Regulation |
| GOTS | Government-Off-The-Shelf |
| HQ CE | NASA Headquarters' Chief Engineer |
| HQ CSMA | NASA Headquarters' Chief Safety and Mission Assurance |
| HWCI | Hardware Configuration Item |
| I/O | Input/Output |
| IEEE | Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers |
| IPEP | IV&V Project Execution Plan |
| ITMRA | Information Technology Management Reform Act |
| IV&V | Independent Verification and Validation |
| MOTS | Modified-Off-The-Shelf |
| NPD | NASA Policy Directive |
| NPR | NASA Procedural Requirements |
| PDR | Preliminary Design Review |
| R&T | Research and Technology |
| SCAMPI | Standard CMMI® Appraisal Method for Process Improvement |
| SEI | Software Engineering Institute |
| SMA | Safety and Mission Assurance |
| SRR | Software Requirements Review |
| SWE | Software Engineering |
| TA | Technical Authority |

  

# Appendix C. References

a. NASA-STD-2202-93, NASA Software Formal Inspection Standard.

b. NASA-GB-8719.13, NASA Software Safety Guidebook.

c. NASA-STD-3000, Volumes I-II, Man-Systems Integration Standards.

d. NASA-STD-7009, Standard for Models and Simulations.

e. CMU/SEI-2002-TR-012, Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) for Systems Engineering/Software Engineering/Integrated Product and Process Development/Supplier Sourcing.

f. IEEE 610.12-1990, IEEE Standard Glossary of Software Engineering Terminology.

g. IEEE 1028-2008 IEEE Standard for Software Reviews and Audits.

h. IEEE 1012-2004 IEEE Standard for Software Verification and Validation.

i. ISO/IEC 24765:2008 Systems and Software Engineering Vocabulary.

j. NASA Software Engineering Web site, http://software.nasa.gov/

k. NASA Engineering Network Web site, http://nen.nasa.gov/portal/site/llis/OCE/

l. NASA Software Process Asset Library (PAL) Web site, http://swpal.nasa.gov/

m. NASA IV&V Management System, http://www.nasa.gov/centers/ivv/ims/home/index.html

n. 36 CFR Part 1194 Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards.

  

# Appendix D. Requirements Mapping Matrix

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

**\* Center Director or the Center Director's designed Engineering Technical Authority

\*\* See Requirement in NPR for full description

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
|  | Grey shaded box indicates that the responsibility for that requirement is not at the project level |**

**X - "Required" -** Responsible party is required to meet the requirement as written.

**X (not OTS) -** Project is required to meet except for off-the-shelf software.

**P (Center) -** Per approved Center defined process which meets a non-empty subset of the full requirement.

**SO - "Safety Only" -** Project is required to meet this requirement to the extent necessary to satisfy safety critical aspects of the software.

**P (Center) + SO -** Responsible party is required to meet this requirement to the extent necessary to satisfy safety critical aspects of the software and follow Center defined P (Center) processes for other aspects of the software.

**Blank Space -** Project is not required to meet the requirement.

**Note 1 -** For Class B software, in lieu of a CMMI rating by a development organization, the project will conduct an evaluation, performed by a qualified evaluator selected by the Center Engineering Technical Authority, of the seven process areas listed in SWE-032 and mitigate any risk, if deficient. This exception is intended to be used in those cases in which NASA wishes to purchase a product from the "best of class provider," but the best of class provider does not have the required CMMI rating. When this exception is exercised, the Center Engineering Technical Authority should be notified.

**Note 2 -** Note that there are additional safety requirements in NASA-STD-8719.13, NASA Software Safety Standard.

**Note 3 -** NASA Headquarters' Chief, Safety and Mission Assurance has co-approval on any waiver or deviation decided at the HQ level that involves safety-critical software. NASA Headquarters' Chief Medical Officer has co-approval on any waiver or deviation decided at the HQ level that involves software with health and medical implications. Waivers and deviations decided at the Center level are to follow similar protocol when software safety critical or health and medical issues are involved.

**Note 4 -** When software development tools are used to develop or maintain Class A, B, C, or safety-critical software.

**Note 5 -** When software models, simulations, and analysis tools are used to perform qualification of flight software or flight equipment.

**Note 6 -** No test plans are required but the project shall perform software testing.

**Note 7 -** This NPR does not require SWE-134 for Classes C thru E and Safety Critical; however it is highly recommended that software within this category use SWE-134 as a checklist to support the identification of safety related risks and their mitigations.

**HQ CE -** NASA Headquarters' Chief Engineer

**HQ CSMA -** NASA Headquarters' Chief, Safety and Mission Assurance

  

# Appendix E. Software Classifications

The applicability of requirements in this NPR to specific systems and subsystems containing software is determined through the use of the NASA-wide definitions for software classes defined below and the designation of the software as safety-critical or non-safety-critical in conjunction with the Requirements Mapping Matrix in Appendix D. These definitions are based on 1) usage of the software with or within a NASA system, 2) criticality of the system to NASA's major programs and projects, 3) extent to which humans depend upon the system, 4) developmental and operational complexity, and 5) extent of the Agency's investment. Classes A – E cover engineering related software in decreasing order of applicable NPR 7150.2 requirements. Classes F through H cover business and IT software in decreasing order of applicable NPR 7120.2 requirements. Using the Requirements Mapping Matrix, the number of applicable requirements and their associated rigor are scaled back for lower software classes and software designated as non-safety-critical. Situations where a project contains separate systems and subsystems having different software classes are not uncommon.

For a given system or subsystem, software is expected to be uniquely defined within a single class. If more than one software class seems to apply, then assign the higher of the classes to the system/subsystem. Any potential discrepancies in classifying software within Classes A - E are to be resolved using the definitions and the five underlying factors listed in the previous paragraph. Engineering and Safety and Mission Assurance provide dual Technical Authority chains for resolving classification issues. The NASA Headquarters' Chief Engineer is the ultimate Technical Authority for software classification disputes concerning definitions in this NPR.

## Class A: Human Rated Space Software Systems

**Definition:**

Human Space Flight Software Systems\*: (ground and flight) developed and/or operated by or for NASA that are needed to perform a primary mission objective of human space flight and directly interacts with human space flight systems. Limited to software required to perform "vehicle, crew, or primary mission function," as defined by software that is:

1. Required to operate the vehicle or space asset (e.g., spacesuit, rover, or outpost), including commanding of the vehicle or asset, or

2. required to sustain a safe, habitable environment for the crew, or

3. required to achieve the primary mission objectives, or

4. directly prepares resources (e.g., data, fuel, power) that are consumed by the above functions.

\* Includes software involving launch, onorbit, in space, surface operations, and entry, descent, and landing.

---

1 Current standards that address habitability and environmental health, including atmospheric composition and pressure, air and water quality and monitoring, acceleration, acoustics, vibration, radiation, thermal environment, combined environmental effects, and human factors, are documented in NASA-STD-3000, Volumes I-II, Man-Systems Integration Standards.

---

**Examples:**

Examples of Class A software (human rated space flight) include but are not limited to:

During Launch: abort modes and selection; separation control; range safety; crew interface (display and controls); crew escape; critical systems monitoring and control; guidance, navigation, and control; and communication and tracking.

On Orbit/In Space: Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA); control of electrical power; payload control (including suppression of hazardous satellite and device commands); critical systems monitoring and control; guidance, navigation, and control; life support systems; crew escape; rendezvous and docking; failure detection; isolation and recovery; communication and tracking; and mission operations.

On Ground: pre-launch and launch operations; Mission Control Center (and Launch Control Center) front end processors; spacecraft commanding; vehicle processing operations; and re-entry operations; flight dynamics simulators used for ascent abort calls; and launch and flight controller stations for manned spaceflight.

Entry, Descent and Landing (EDL): command and control; aero-surface control; power; thermal; and fault protection; and communication and tracking.

Surface Operations: planet/lunar surface EVA; and communication and tracking.

**Exclusions:**

Class A does not include:

1. Software which happens to fly in space but is superfluous to mission objectives (e.g., software contained in an iPod carried on board by an astronaut for personal use), or

2. software that exclusively supports aeronautics, Research and Technology, and science conducted without spaceflight applications, or

3. systems (e.g., simulators, emulators, stimulators, facilities) used to test Class A systems containing software in a development environment.

## Class B: Non-Human Space Rated Software Systems or Large Scale Aeronautics Vehicles

**Definition:**

Space Systems\*: Flight and ground software that must perform reliably to accomplish primary mission objectives, or major function(s) in Non-Human Space Rated Systems. Limited to software that is:

1. Required to operate the vehicle or space asset (e.g., orbiter, lander, probe, flyby spacecraft, rover, launch vehicle, or primary instrument), such as commanding of the vehicle or asset, or

2. required to achieve the primary mission objectives, or

3. directly prepares resources (data, fuel, power, etc.) that are consumed by the above functions.

Airborne Vehicles: Large Scale1 aeronautic vehicles that are NASA unique in which the software:

1. Is integral to the control of an airborne vehicle, or

2. monitors and controls the cabin environment, or

3. monitors and controls the vehicle's emergency systems.

This definition includes software for vehicles classified as "test", "experimental", or "demonstration" which meets the above definition for Class B software. Also included are systems in a test or demonstration where the software's known and scheduled intended use is to be part of a Class A or B software system.

\* Includes software involving launch, onorbit, in space, surface operations, and entry, descent, and landing.

---

1 Large-scale (life-cycle cost exceeding $250M) fully integrated technology development system — see NPR 7120.8, section 5.1.1.1.

---

**Examples:**

Examples of Class B software includes but are not limited to:

Space, Launch, Ground, EDL, and Surface Systems: propulsion systems; power systems; guidance navigation and control; fault protection; thermal systems; command and control ground systems; planetary/lunar surface operations; hazard prevention; primary instruments; science sequencing engine; simulations which create operational EDL parameters; subsystems that could cause the loss of science return from multiple instruments; flight dynamics and related data; launch and flight controller stations for non-human spaceflight.

Aeronautics Vehicles (Large Scale NASA Unique): guidance, navigation, and control; flight management systems; autopilot; propulsion systems; power systems; emergency systems (e.g., fire suppression systems, emergency egress systems; emergency oxygen supply systems, traffic/ground collision avoidance system); and cabin pressure and temperature control.

**Exclusions:**

Class B does not include:

1. Software that exclusively supports non-primary instruments on Non-Human Space Rated Systems (e.g., low cost non-primary university supplied instruments) or

2. systems (e.g., simulators emulators, stimulators, facilities) used in testing Class B systems containing software in a development environment.

## Class C: Mission Support Software or Aeronautic Vehicles, or Major Engineering/Research Facility Software

**Definition:**

Space Systems:

1. Flight or ground software that is necessary for the science return from a single (non-primary) instrument, or

2. flight or ground software that is used to analyze or process mission data, or

3. other software for which a defect could adversely impact attainment of some secondary mission objectives or cause operational problems, or

4. software used for the testing of space assets, or

5. software used to verify system requirements of space assets by analysis, or

6. software for space flight operations, that is not covered by Class A or B.

Airborne Vehicles:

Systems for non-large scale aeronautic vehicles in which the software:

1. is integral to the control of an airborne vehicle, or

2. monitors and controls the cabin environment, or

3. monitors and controls the vehicle's emergency system.

Systems on an airborne vehicle (including large scale vehicles) that acquire, store, or transmit the official record copy of flight or test data.

Major Engineering/Research Facility: Systems that operate a major facility for research, development, test, or evaluation (e.g., facility controls and monitoring, systems that operate facility-owned instruments, apparatus, and data acquisition equipment).

**Examples:** Examples of Class C software include but are not limited to:

Space Systems: software that supports prelaunch integration and test; mission data processing and analysis; analysis software used in trend analysis and calibration of flight engineering parameters; primary/major science data collection storage and distribution systems (e.g., Distributed Active Archive Centers); simulators, emulators, stimulators, or facilities used to test Class A, B, or C software in a development, integration and test environments (development environment includes environments used from unit testing through validation testing); software used to verify system-level requirements associated with Class A, B, or C software by analysis (e.g., guidance, navigation and controls (GN&C) system performance verification by analysis); simulators used for mission training; software employed by network operations and control (which is redundant with systems used at tracking complexes); command and control of non-primary instruments; ground mission support software used for secondary mission objectives, real-time analysis, and planning (e.g., monitoring, consumables analysis, mission planning).

Aeronautics Vehicles: guidance, navigation, and control; flight management systems; autopilot; propulsion systems; power systems; emergency systems (e.g., fire suppression systems, emergency egress systems, emergency oxygen supply systems, traffic/ground collision avoidance system); cabin pressure and temperature control; in-flight telescope control software; aviation data integration systems; and automated flight planning systems.

Major Engineering/Research Facility: major Center facilities; data acquisition and control systems for wind tunnels, vacuum chambers, and rocket engine test stands; ground-based software used to operate a major facility telescope; and major aeronautic applications facilities (e.g., air traffic management systems; high fidelity motion based simulators).

**Exclusions:** Systems unique to a research, development, test, or evaluation activity in a Major Engineering/Research Facility or Airborne Vehicle where the system is not part of the facility or vehicle and does not impact the operation of the facility or vehicle.

## Class D: Basic Science/Engineering Design and Research and Technology Software

**Definition:**

Basic Science/Engineering Design:

1. Ground software that performs secondary science data analysis, or

2. ground software tools that support engineering development, or

3. ground software used in testing other Class D software systems, or

4. ground software tools that support mission planning or formulation, or

5. ground software that operates a research, development, test, or evaluation laboratory (i.e., not a Major Engineering/Research Facility), or

6. ground software that provides decision support for non-mission critical situations.

Airborne Vehicle Systems:

1. Software whose anomalous behavior would cause or contribute to a failure of system function resulting in a minor failure condition for the airborne vehicle (e.g., the Software Considerations in Airborne System and Equipment Certification, DO-178B, "Class D"), or

2. software whose anomalous behavior would cause or contribute to a failure of system function with no effect on airborne vehicle operational capability or pilot workload (e.g., the Software Considerations in Airborne System and Equipment Certification, DO-178B, "Class E"), or

3. ground software tools that perform research associated with airborne vehicles or systems.

Major Engineering/Research Facility Related: research software that executes in a Major Engineering/Research Facility but is independent of the operation of the facility.

**Examples:**

Examples of Class D software includes but are not limited to:

Basic Science and Engineering Design: engineering design and modeling tools (e.g., Computer-Aided Design and Computer-Aided Manufacturing (CAD/CAM), thermal/structural analysis tools); project assurance databases (e.g., problem reporting, analysis, and corrective action system, requirements management databases); propulsion integrated design tools; integrated build management systems; inventory management tools; probabilistic engineering analysis tools; test stand data analysis tools; test stand engineering support tools; experimental flight displays evaluated in a flight simulator; and tools used to develop design reference missions to support early mission planning.

Airborne Vehicles: software tools for designing advanced human-automation systems; experimental synthetic-vision display; and cloud-aerosol Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) installed on an aeronautics vehicle.

**Exclusions:**

Class D does not include:

1. Software that can impact primary or secondary mission objectives or cause loss of data that is generated by space systems, or

2. software which operates a Major Engineering/Research Facility, or

3. software which operates an airborne vehicle, or

4. space flight software.

## Class E: Small Light Weight Design Concept and Research and Technology Software

**Definition:**

1. Software developed to explore a design concept or hypothesis, but not used to make decisions for an operational Class A, B, or C system or to-be built Class A, B, or C system, or

2. software used to perform minor desktop analysis of science or experimental data.

**Examples:** Examples of Class E software include but are not limited to:

parametric models to estimate performance or other attributes of design concepts; software to explore correlations between data sets; line of code counters; file format converters; and document template builders.

**Exclusions:**

Class E does not include:

1. Space flight systems, or

2. software developed by or for NASA to directly support an operational system (e.g., human rated space system, robotics spacecraft, space instrument, airborne vehicle, major engineering/research facility, mission support facility, primary/major science data collection storage and distribution systems), or

3. software developed by or for NASA to be flight qualified to support an operational system, or

4. software that directly affects primary or secondary mission objectives, or

5. software that can adversely affect the integrity of engineering/scientific artifacts, or

6. software used in technical decisions concerning operational systems, or

7. software that has an impact on operational vehicles.

## Business and IT Infrastructure Software

## Class F: General Purpose Computing Software (Multi-Center or Multi- Program/Project)

**Definition:** General purpose computing software used in support of the Agency, multiple Centers, or multiple programs/projects, as described for the General Purpose Infrastructure To-Be Component of the NASA Enterprise Architecture, Volume 5 (To-Be Architecture), and for the following portfolios: voice, wide area network, local area network, video, data Centers, application services, messaging and collaboration, and public Web. A defect in Class F software is likely to affect the productivity of multiple users across several geographic locations and may possibly affect mission objectives or system safety. Mission objectives can be cost, schedule, or technical objectives for any work that the Agency performs.

**Examples:** Examples of Class F software include but are not limited to: software in support of the NASA-wide area network; the NASA Web portal; and applications supporting the Agency's Integrated Enterprise Management Program, such as the time and attendance system, Travel Manager, Business Warehouse, and E-Payroll.

## Class G: General Purpose Computing Software (Single Center or Project)

**Definition:** General purpose computing software used in support of a single Center or project, as described for locally deployed portions of the General Purpose Infrastructure To-Be Component of the NASA Enterprise Architecture, Volume 5 (To-Be Architecture) and for the following portfolios: voice, local area network, video, data Centers, application services, messaging and collaboration, and public Web. A defect in Class G software is likely to affect the productivity of multiple users in a single geographic location or workgroup but is unlikely to affect mission objectives or system safety.

**Examples:** Examples of Class G software include but are not limited to: software for Center custom applications such as Headquarters' Corrective Action Tracking System and Headquarters' User Request Systems.

## Class H: General Purpose Desktop Software

**Definition:** General purpose desktop software as described for the General Purpose Infrastructure To-Be Component (Desktop Hardware and Software Portfolio) of the NASA Enterprise Architecture, Volume 5 (NASA To-Be Architecture). A defect in Class H software may affect the productivity of a single user or small group of users but generally will not affect mission objectives or system safety. However, a defect in desktop IT security-related software, e.g., anti-virus software, may lead to loss of functionality and productivity across multiple users and systems.

**Examples:** Examples of Class H software include but are not limited to: desktop applications such as word processing applications, spreadsheet applications, and presentation applications.

  
  

### DISTRIBUTION: NODIS

---

### **This Document is Obsolete and Is No Longer Used.** Check the NODIS Library to access the current version: http://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov

---

NPR 7123.1B NASA Systems Engineering Processes and Requirements (Updated w/Change 4)

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
|  | NASA Procedures and Guidelines |
| **This Document is Obsolete and Is No Longer Used.**  Check the NODIS Library to access the current version:  http://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov | |

---

#### NPR 7123.1B Effective Date: April 18, 2013 Cancellation Date: Responsible Office: KA

## NASA Systems Engineering Processes and Requirements (Updated w/Change 4)